Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video on evaluating econ augments. For this video, I'm going to focus specifically on gold tier augments in stage 32. However, the process used to evaluate them can be used for augments in any stage of any tier. So, gain 21 gold is the most simple one. It's just 21 gold immediately. Uh, next I want to talk about explosive growth. It gives 7 XP four times. So, pretty simple. 28 gold. It is conditional because you cannot take it when playing a reroll comp. Also, the fact that it doesn't give it to you immediately means that maybe in some situations you would take the top augment level to seven immediately, whereas with explosive growth, you won't be able to do that. So, it's not strictly better than gain 21 gold. However, the big gap I think makes a pretty big difference. Um, hypothetically, if this gave you 28 gold right away, um, some advantages, of course, it would let you right level right away, if you weren't making 50 already for whatever reason, it could help you make higher econ break points. But in most normal games, I think you're generally on 32, level 50, making, sorry, level six, making 50 anyway, and then you're leveling to seven on 35 frequently anyway. So you're just spending your gold on XP regardless. So this is basically worth 28 gold in my opinion. It has very few downsides. Epic roll down is a new augment added. Once you hit level eight, you get 23 rolls. Personally, in standard TFT for most top tier players, players playing in Pro Circuit, it's pretty uncommon to even want to use your rolls before level eight anyway. So, I think this is very close to just as good as 23 rolls. Again, you cannot take this while playing a rroll comp, which is a decent restriction, but in a standard game of TFT, you're going to go eight, and you're going to want to roll about this many times regardless. Uh, unless you high roll, then you don't need to roll this much. So, I think this is basically worth 46 gold because you would just, if it just gave you 46 gold, um, again, if it gave it to you immediately, you would get some tempo by being able to level right away. But apart from that, by the time you get to 42, you're pretty much going to use all those gold. So, I think this augment is extremely strong. You can see it's giving almost like double the value of gain 21 gold with, of course, some downsides. Epoch Plus gives you 8 XP plus three rolls immediately and then again at the start of every stage. So, I think in every TFT game, you should expect to live at least until stage five. very very very rare to not live until stage five. This would be 8 + 6 14 and then times three um 42 gold. If you do make it to stage six, that just gives even more. However, I I choose to just estimate this as about 42 because even though you do make it to stage six about half the time, um the fact that you get everything a little bit delayed, like one of your one of the 14 gold chunks that I'm including this is stage five, which is quite a bit more delayed than even epic roll down, which you would get on about 42 usually. Explosive growth, you finish by the end of stage three. But this one's actually kind of the most delayed. Um so it kind of like balances it out. I value about 42. Yeah. Poor thinking. You lose all your gold. You get that gold back. Plus 70g after five player combat. So because you lose your gold now, you lose econ break points. Again, most frequently you're making 50 on 32 when you take it. So you're actually going to lose five gold on that round. It depends a lot on your bench. The ideal situation to take this is if you have a full bench because often times you can sell that and then start immediately making interest. However, in most cases, you're probably not going to have that much money on your bench, which means you're going to lose about five golds around. You take it five gold next round. Um, by that point, maybe you can start making 10. So then maybe you lose like four gold, then four gold. Uh, I'm just going to estimate to be about five gold times five. Um, 25 gold. There's also a neutral round. So, you would have reduced income for six rounds. Uh, so I guess I estimated that between those six rounds, you'll lose about four gold per round. You'll be making about 10 on average over the six rounds. So, I think it's worth about 45g. Note that this will make you weaker in stage three, especially if you're level five when you take it, which is very common uh because you won't immediately be able to level to six where most other people will. However, if you are already level six, then this is usually pretty decent as you probably won't be able to level to seven on 35. But that just means you're kind of missing out on just two rounds of power where other people are going to be stronger because you still are going to be able to afford the units in your shop and upgrade your board that way. Um, but yeah, the number is a lot bigger than it looks a lot bigger than the augment actually gives because you generally are going to lose quite a bit of econ break points. Last one I want to talk about is for a grab bag plus which is eight gold and two duplicators. Uh this one's probably the trickiest to evaluate. Uh because how much is a duplicator worth? We talked about some of these at the top only being viable in standard level eight centric or level 9 centric comps or grab bag is really only very good in roll compositions. So let's say you're playing a two cautionary roll composition. If you roll on level six, you have a 40% ch chance per shop slot to see a two cost. There's five shop slots. So 40% is two- fifths. Every single shop you see on average two two costs. Because of this, a shop is two gold. You can think of seeing each two cost as costing about one gold because there's about 14 two costs. It can vary in the set because of unlocks, but basically to see a very specific two cost that you want. On average, if you spend 14 gold, you'll see each one once. So if you're looking for exactly one, it costs about 14 gold and then you have to buy it for two gold. So it costs about 16 gold. So basically by duplicating your most important two costs that you're trying to threear that's worth about 16 gold. Um so I evaluated this as uh I that would be 40 gold that' be 32 plus 8. But for a three cost you know it cost one more. So it' be 17 gold plus 8 uh 17 * 2 plus 8. And that's why I put this number here. three cost odds on level seven, same as two cost odds on level six. So everything else will be the same except the one extra gold you use to buy the unit. Again, this is specifically for gold augments on stage 32. However, I think as long as you can understand kind of the thought process for evaluating these, you can apply it to any tier of augments and kind of make your own conclusions about how good they are. Um, I think a lot of people see gain 21 gold and think of it as kind of just like a baseline. Oh, like Riot Game surely just made this a balanced gold augment. Uh, personally, I think gain 21 gold is extremely underpowered as you can see compared to a lot of the other alternatives. So, gain 21 gold absolutely is not the baseline. I think this augment is very bad. In fact, um, compared again, just compared to the alternatives, obviously it has some advantages. They can spend it immediately. Uh, maybe you can use that to go level seven, for example, immediately and then gain a little bit combat power for two rounds for 32 and 33 before other players go seven on 35. But yeah, I would say a gold augment on 32 on average is probably worth somewhere close to about like 30 gold. A lot of these other ones have bigger drawbacks um or like conditionals like her grab bag. Epoch Plus I think generically is probably the strongest of all of these. Uh by the start of stage four it's giving you 28 gold. So already as much as explosive growth because of course you are going to want to use rolls and then you have the chance for additional proc on stage five almost guaranteed you live that long and then another additional proc on stage six is your proc on stage six the eight XP is frequently going to be wasted but still going to give you three rolls so pretty nice there. That's going to wrap up for this video on evaluating econ augments. If you have any comments or questions let me know in the Discord and thanks for watching.