Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video on what I consider to be the top five artifacts and how to play around them on 15.2A. So, let's go ahead and this is just all the artifacts sorted by average placement on man TFT. Um, let's go ahead and start at the top. Manazane, uh, Manazane is really strong on Karma, averaging 3.5 with a pretty forcable line. If you have a 21-1 mana zane, for example, you can play around either Karma or Yumi. Both of these averaging around, you know, 3.4 is incredibly incredibly low average placement. Um, very, very good. If you have Manzane on 21, I'm definitely trying to force one of these two units. Uh, Karma is played in a six sorc comp. Uh, I have a guide up on that, so you can check that out. But basically, it's just really good on Karma specifically because in her comp, it's very heavily offensive oriented. you're investing six of your eight units on your board into Sorc's fully offensive trait. So, by the time your mana Zane runs out of the effect cuz it's a burst damage at the start, it's burst damage at the start of the fight and then actually gives you less mana regen than something like Shojan afterwards. Um, but by the time you it's done with with Karma, the fight is basically over. Yumi is played in a little bit of a more balanced comp, but Yumi scales up very, very fast based on how often she casts, and then she can sustain her continued spell casting with Prodigy in her comp. But basically, if you see, her first cast is 15 pages, her next cast is 20 pages. So, the second cast is already 33% more damage than the first. Um, like the fourth cast is already double the amount of damage. So, Manzane just helps you get those cash ramping up. One thing I want to mention is the Crystal Gambit units, uh, Zyra and Jana. Um, there is a Crystal Gambit cash out that gives Manazane. When you're doing very very well with Crystal Gambit, um, and you're looking like it's looking like you're going first, you're surviving a long time. Often times, you might even cash out two manazines. So, all these Crystal Gambit units drive up the stats quite a bit. So, you'll see Zyra and Jana up here. Just um, you can just ignore them. You can go into advanced explore and filter out seven crystal gambits if you want a little bit of a clearer picture, but uh it doesn't matter too much. You can generally just ignore the these crystal gambit units. Uh real quickly, I just want to mention indom roll is also a cash out. So appears in data very close to the top, but most of these are just coming from seven crystal gambit. If you look at the best users, Swain and Vi, it's not particularly good with these units. It's just because of Seven Crystal Gambit. Um, I mean it's definitely not bad with Swain. He does benefit from having max health, but yeah, I wouldn't worry about it too much. Uh, the next item I want to talk about is Flicker Blaze. Flicker Blades is extremely extremely strong item. It's best in slot on quite a few units actually. Uh, flicker blades is similar to old ragelade from early last set if you guys remember that, which scaled very well if you already had attack speed. Current ragelade is a little bit better on users who don't have any attack speed. Um, but this is basically any dualist unit. So you can see Ash, game plank, and Kale. And Kog'ma will give himself a lot of attack speed. Out of all these units, Game Plank for sure is the most noteworthy, averaging even below three, which is pretty insane. But um, even without Game Plank, all these other units do quite well with Flickerblade as uh, as well. Yeah, Game Plank in particular is extremely good. Um, if you get flickerblade, I would definitely try to force one of these units. Ideally, game plank, but Ash and Kale are both really good as well. Uh, next one I want to talk about is Silver Miridon. Silver Miridon is really good on Jace specifically. Uh, if you guys played a lot during PvE, I think Darius was really overpowered during that time, so you may remember people talking about Silver Mirror Darius, but it's actually quite a bit better on Jace. If you look at the play rate, it's actually about equal games on Darius and Jace, but Jayce is just so much better with it than Darius. Um, one of the main reasons is I find it easier to use tactics tools to find this info. But, um, one of the main reasons is the downside of silver mirrors. It makes your attack speed.5. So, if you look at Darius, he goes from 085 to.5. So, he actually loses quite a lot of attack speed as a trade-off for what Silver gives. still good on him just because he really benefits from all the stats. But if you look at Jace, he's 7 attack speed, so he actually doesn't give up that much in order to in order to equip the silver mirror. Of course, he you lose some attack speed, but it's much less of a sacrifice. One thing that's kind of hard to have since you need to take an augment for knuckle dusters, but VI is 6 attack speed. So Vi is giving up almost nothing to equip a silver mirror, which is really good on her. If you do have knuckle dusters, look out for this. But it's just kind of hard to have that and also have an artifact. Um the next one I want to talk about is um actually let's do Horizon Focus next. Where is it? So Horizon Focus is all the way down here in Btier. Uh but this is a little bit I think a lot of players don't know what units to put it on. If you kind of look at the frequency, it's put on Kobico. Actually, it's put on Copico less frequently than Jarvin by like 50% less. Um, it's Poppy holds it even half as much as Kobico, but I think the main unit you want to hold on is Kobico. The average placement here actually doesn't look that insane, but the comp you really want to play is is with a game plank. So, if we're playing it with a 3M game plank, and again, we're not thinking about anything too crazy. We just have a game plank with three on our board and uh we look at artifacts. Any unit copico with horizon focus oftentimes is played with four mentors. Game plank of course one of the most popular comps. If you've been playing a lot of TFT, you've seen this. I'm sure this is already averaging 3.5. So this is pretty insane. Even at two star, Kobico is very frequently going to get multiple cast offs casts off. Uh if you have four mentor in, those casts are going to be area of effect stuns. It's just going to do quite a lot of damage. So yeah, definitely look out for um definitely look out for Horizon Focus. It is listed all the way down here in B, but it's just because people don't really know how to use it yet. I expect honestly by the end of the patch even, uh this will probably be somewhere in S. One last artifact I want to talk about. So, so far as we've talked about Manazane, Flicker Blade, Silver Mirror, and Horizon. Last one is Fishbones. Fishbones it up here as an S is also extremely good. Once again, the best user is Game Plank because he can use his stash really well. Uh, Game Plank has a .08 attack speed, so he scales extremely well with the attack speed tier. 50% attack speed is just a ton of stats. Uh, the closest thing that you can craft is red buff, which gives 40%. Um, so that's like the main value of this item is just like the crazy amount of attack speed it gives you. But it also gives 20 AD, which is quite a decent bit of AD. That's why it's going to perform better on AD units compared to something like Ahri, who can benefit from the effect, but not using the AD. It's just like too big of a drawback. It's kind of a waste of the item. Uh 20 AD is like one/ird the value of a craftful item or like maybe like 14 or 1/5if the value of this item. Uh so game plank once again the best user. He benefits a lot from the extra range as a melee unit. Helps keep them safe. Uh but two other units that are really good are Kai'Sa and Jyn. Kai'Sa and Jyn both have the capability of oneshotting your enemy's carry pretty much at the start of the fight with fishbones. Uh, other than that, the uh the stats, the base stats are just really good on both of these units as well. So, look out for fishbones on Kai'Sa and Jin. Uh, I wouldn't worry about too much on Ash specifically. You can use it. She benefits from the stats, but um it's not going to be as good as these other ones because Ash kind of does like trickle damage. So, you're not just going to get that like one lucky proc that one shots your opponent's backline. you can if you get like several in a row, but it's not as consistent and not as valuable if that's it's not as valuable to do like chip damage to your opponent's backline. Um, obviously again, sometimes you'll just get lucky and it'll work out, but uh the Kaisen and the Jin have that pretty good chance to just win the fight off the bat. That's going to wrap it up on top five artifacts to look out for. Once again, manazane, force karma, yumi, flicker blades, uh kale, ash, game plank, most noble game plank, silver mirror's jace specifically. Uh you can use it on knuckle dusters or Darius. Fishbones is Kai'Sa game plank or Jin. And then Horizon Focus play for mentor Kobako. Any any setup with formentor Koboko. The game plan comp is pretty common, but really could be any formentor setup. That's going to wrap it up on this video for the top five artifacts. If you have any comments or questions, let me know in the Discord. And thanks for watching.