Hey everyone, it's Aether, and welcome to my video on the stage two econ framework. This is going to cover everything you need to know about stage two econ. First, let's quickly recap the mechanics around econ. You get five gold natural at the start of every round. Note this does not apply to the start of the game. In the first four rounds, you get two, two, three, and four. Um you get four on two-two, and on two-three you'll start making five. Interest, you get one gold for each 10 gold saved, up to five gold. Most people know this, of course. Um and then streak, you get zero if you alternate a win-loss, but then you'll get gold for streaks. Real quickly, with your base and interest, you'll see this These each account for about half your gold. Uh streaks are unreliable, and they don't really give you that much, even for all the way as much as a four streak, which is pretty hard to do in general cases. Um you're still only get one extra gold, whereas you'll get up to 10 from these first two sources. But if you do five streak or more, you start getting uh more gold, but even still, it's unreliable mostly, and doesn't give you as much as base and interest, so streak generally is pretty overrated, uh especially loss streak, which is costly. If you're win streaking, that's just what you're trying to do anyway. Uh we want to win rounds to save HP, and also to get our round win, which gives us one gold. So, even as much as a four loss, um like let's say we're already on a three loss, if we lose, we get one more gold for a four loss streak, but if we win, we just get one gold for winning. So, definitely don't overvalue loss streak. Uh streak works on neutrals, so it's a little bit nicer to streak into neutrals, but again, even if it's a four streak, that's only one more gold, so I wouldn't worry too much about it. Okay, econ basic fundamentals. Um we're usually making close to 50 gold by three-one. So, however way we get there, uh that's what we're going to focus on in this video, because by the time we make 50, it doesn't really matter what else you do at that point. We've reached the same spot. So, a big question I frequently get asked is should we level on two-one and two-five, uh the natural leveling rounds? Because 10 gold makes one gold, uh leveling costs of course four gold, which makes you can kind of round it to about .4 gold. Of course, this isn't a perfect uh one-to-one correlation, because often times on two-one, we're not making 10 anyway. So, if we level, we're still not making 10, so it actually doesn't cost us anything. Uh on the flip side, there's also compound interest, where sometimes because we level, we miss multiple econ break points. But overall, I would say leveling on two-one is about .4 per rounds for five rounds, so that's two gold. Uh two-five, that's two rounds for two-five and two-six. Um so, overall, it's about seven rounds for about three gold. Again, it can be a little bit more or less, but generally, leveling costs you three gold throughout stage two. You can see this is actually pretty cheap, which is why barring special circumstances, like if you have a loss streak augment, or if you just absolutely have no board or items you want to slam, I mostly recommend for players to level on two-one and two-five, uh if you're not sure. Of course, there's also the round win, so it's going to cost you about three gold um in terms of interest break points, but if we just win three more rounds, we have already made up that purely in terms of gold, but we also care about saving HP. One thing that's really important to know is leveling, of course, doesn't guarantee wins, so it's not like you don't level, you lose, you level, you win. It's always a chance um that either one can happen. Leveling makes it more likely you win, which is nice. Um but generally, again, it's usually worth it. Uh saving HP is a big part of it. Even if we level and we don't win, even if we kill an extra couple units, like let's say we kill three extra units, and we lost one interest break points, that's honestly fine. One gold is worth about three HP. This can be a little bit variable. This is not really down to a science. It's just kind of based on playing and observing thousands of games of TFT, and kind of seeing what your average placement is from various spots. Um it's pretty nebulous, honestly. Again, this is not an exact science. And one gold worth about three HP in stage three. This is a very rough estimate, of course. Even like the end of stage two is closer to the beginning of stage three than the beginning of stage three is to the end of stage three, right? So, this is just kind of a shortcut. Don't think too hard about it, but the point is HP is uh generally, I would say, undervalued by most players. Gold is worth less if the patch is balanced. Um I wouldn't worry about this too much. I think, as I'm recording this in set 16, hopefully, patches will be pretty well balanced from here on out. Uh but basically, when there are a lot of different viable lines, bas- the jump from level eight to level nine costs about 70 gold, right? So, at some point in the game, even if you have 40 more gold than the rest of the lobby, at some point in the game, that 40 gold is not really enough to get you from eight to nine. So, while you're sitting there level eight, you've hit your entire board, you've got 40 more gold, other people are still going to have the same board value as you. And because of that, if you have a lot less HP, then your spot might just be worse. Um again, this is situational. If the patch is very unbalanced, then having that gold lead to get you to that S-tier comp and bully other players out of it, uh you take all the units out of the pool, and then you can win out with it. Um then in that case, having even a small gold lead becomes very important, but generally, that's not the case. Uh and I know I've said this several times already, but I feel like it just has to be emphasized that most players I've coached hundreds of players at most players overvalue gold compared to HP. Uh so, first of all, I want to talk about the full open loss streak magic number. Um in most games, two two out of three games roughly, we can see the distribution here on little buddy bot. Uh stage one loot, most games about two out of three, this is 70% we have base. We get high about 10% of the time. You don't have to worry about too much. Basically, in two out of three games, you will open with six gold plus usually three item components. I'm assuming we're holding four gold of units, so this is just like if we're playing four one costs on our board, or uh three one costs on our board holding up a bench. Um full open means we're like not trying to win at rounds at all. This could be like if we're playing two cost reroll, and we're holding two copies of it, and just losing rounds, just playing those two copies on our board. We want to make 10 on two-one, and this is Sorry, the magic number basically is if we make all these interest break points, we have exactly enough to make the next interest break point, and then kind of get one extra gold on every round by doing that. Um so again, it's pretty hard to make to 10 on two-one. We can only hold four gold worth of units, which is very, very little, but if we commit to it, we can start making extra break break points, right? So, again, base gold on two-one is only three. We get one interest, so we get plus four. Now we have 14. Uh base is four, we get one interest, we also get one from loss streak. Um so, now we have 20. So, we kind of perfectly made that interest break point. Uh then we get eight more. Carousel, we can get up to three costs maximum. Uh in this case, I'm assuming we're taking a three cost, so we have plus eight plus three, now we have 31, and we get exactly plus nine. So, we perfectly make 40 on two-one, right? So, this kind of works out exactly to hit every interest break point. If we do have to take a two cost on carousel, that means we can only hit hold three gold worth of units. That's fine, obviously, um depending on our situation. You can also make gold on stage one by selling the neutrals. We saw some people do this in set 16 regionals, where econ was very good on this patch, but generally, that's not going to be the case. Either way, by two-seven, the first neutral round, we have 51 gold total, uh plus our four gold of units, so 55 gold total. Um 11 is from extra interest, and eight is from going five loss streak. So, this is a total of 19 gold, basically for playing no units. Uh again, only like four gold total of units on stage two, we could get extra 19 gold. So, 19 gold definitely nice. It is a lot. Uh it absolutely can make or break your game. Uh but let's compare it to some of the other options. So, of course, we just looked at full loss streak, it's 19 gold. Um generally, if we do this, we're around 70 HP. We might be a little bit more or less. Uh but if we're 70 HP on two-three, and we're only holding four gold total worth of units, we have to have a stage three solution, right? Because other people have been progressively building up their board, holding pairs throughout every single shop in stage two, having two starred units. So, we're going to continue losing on stage three unless we do something about it. And most commonly, this would be we're playing a reroll line. We're using our rolls on stage three to kind of catch up and seeing better shops. Um and then we start winning on stage three because you really really really do not want to continue losing on stage three. Um So almost always you'll go into a reroll line. There can be some exceptions, but for the most part this is the case. Uh if there is like a super STR four cost comp, you could go 10 loss and then roll for it before everyone else with their additional econ. But I mean if you go 10 loss you're going to be like 20 HP. And then you might just run into a couple high rollers and then die. Being 20 HP is very very bad unless you're extremely confident you can win out the game. Um so standard loss streak is 15. So the difference between standard and full loss basically is we're not greeting every single interest breakpoint. So compared to kind of that magic number, we're making about one gold less per round um on each of those rounds. So for for four rounds we're making one gold less. So it's about 15. A full win streak. This is including leveling because normally when you're win streaking you need to level. Uh four units versus three units is just a really really big difference. But if we full win streak we actually have 17 gold, right? So this is um pretty similar. We get like the eight from streak. Uh but we're making less interest, but we get five round wins which is five more gold. So full win streak is ideal because of course we're saving HP. Remember earlier one gold is worth about three HP. And then if we go mix streak we're not going to get as much gold from streak as a full win streak of course. And then we also will get a little bit less gold from winning rounds. It's a little bit uh not always the same, right? Like if you win one more round compared to one more loss that's a one gold difference immediately. Um but you'll get about 10 gold. So I think if you look at it for full loss streak compared to mix streak um full loss streak it kind of looks like a huge difference at first. It's like double the amount of gold. But I would say it's really overrated. Um nine gold is nice to have obviously. But it's actually not that impactful because if you remember on the previous slide our total amount of gold when we got to neutrals was 55 gold. So now it's a nine gold difference. We still have in this case 46 gold. So the difference between 55 and 46 looks a lot smaller than how much gold we actually earned. And that's when we factored in our base gold of course. Um If we're full loss streak and we're 70 HP compared to if we're mix streak and we're 90 HP. So we have 20 more HP, we have nine less gold. That's generally going to be um using the heuristic of one gold is three HP. That'd be a little bit worse. However, the thing is mix streak is the most reliable and you're not even trying to mix streak, right? Like when you do push levels you're actually going for that full win streak. Um And full loss streak is just less reliable, right? Because first of all only really one player per lobby can reliably do it. There is a chance two players both go for it and don't fight each other, but it's rare. Of course you'll fight five out of your seven opponents. So there's another player playing zero units. You only have a two out of seven chance of not fighting them. Very very unlikely. So generally much better to go to the mix streak because this is kind of like a worst case scenario if you're leveling and playing strongest board. And it's still only a tiny bit worse and this is kind of like the best case scenario if you're going for full loss streak. Um So again if you're playing at a very high level, if you're watching like TFT Worlds, everyone is playing really strong boards. Some players will just not have the option. So they might choose to go for that full loss streak because they don't have the items or shops or augments available to them. However, I would say if you are somewhere around masters, you should strive to go for this leveling every round. Uh because most players are not optimizing their boards in stage two. And obviously I'm not expecting you watching this video to all of a sudden play like a Worlds player, but I think it's absolutely realistic to strive to play your stage two better. And you'll be actually able to win most of your rounds in stage two very often. Um finally that's kind of everything there is to stage two. Uh all the details about it. The TLDR is mostly level one two one two five and play strongest board. Um But another thing I want to talk about is building econ again in stage four. So this entire process that I showed of starting with basically zero gold and going up to 15 gold 50 gold happens again very frequently when you're playing standard four cost line because we're normally leveling to eight and rolling on four two, right? And then we have to rebuild our econ. In an average game we play about 22 fights. The 22 fights would be if you died on stage five two. Uh if we just look at and if you just look at your match history basically you'll live past five two probably most of the time. Honestly this is a this is a pretty conservative estimate. Uh I just picked this number because by four two we'll have played 11 fights which is only halfway through the game. This is way too early to neglect making interest. I do want to say there are some games where you're just low rolling. TFT is a game of variance. If you play 100 games you're going to have a bottom 1% low roll game. And there going to be some games where you're just really unlucky and you have no choice. You're one life. Uh you don't want to die with any gold remaining and you just can't make interest the rest of the game. So you're just zero gold every round. However, that should be very rare. You should avoid that as much as possible. Um So again it is possible to low roll and you have no choice but to not make interest in stage four. It's too important to use your rolls as soon as possible to upgrade your board to save HP. But in most of your games you should be trying to repeat this process that you did in stage two in stage four. And the lower you have to roll the better it is. So if we can level to eight and then we do our roll down, if we can stop at like 20 gold compared to stopping at zero gold that is going to be a huge advantage in rebuilding our econ making us much more likely to hit our upgrades by the end of game as well as go level nine and even hit legendary upgrades. So I would say uh while econ in stage two is overrated by most players, making econ in stage four is underrated by most players. Because if you think about it by the time we get to our final board our final board doesn't care if we made 10 extra gold in stage two or if we made 10 extra gold in stage four. It's pretty much the same. Um assuming the amount of HP saved is equal to, right? Because um by making less gold in stage two I'm assuming we use that to save HP. And it's the same thing in stage four. That being said uh again I've coached hundreds of students. For you watching this video, I don't know what your specific play style is like, but I would say overwhelmingly players do not make enough interest on stage four and they make interest too much on stage two. That's going to wrap it up for this video on the stage two econ framework. If you have any comments or questions, let me know in the Discord and thanks for watching.