Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video for playing for first verse top four. Quite a lot of players wish they had more first place where their graph the distribution kind of looks kind of like a bell curve where they don't have that many first, they don't have any eighths. Uh, and other players are kind of the other way around where they have too many eighths and they want to have more top fours. Uh so basically I want to talk about some of the decisions that can affect uh whether you go first or top four. Uh the main thing it comes down to is when you choose to spend your HP. Basically anytime you take risk and spend your HP, you increase your win rate but decrease your top four rate, which just makes sense. Uh the single most important factor is probably just greed versus spending econ. I think this mostly applies to later game. Early on, you're mostly not going to make that big of a difference. Uh you generally want to save HP. You might be able to get save like one or two gold here and there early, but mostly is impactful. I would say on stage four is probably the most impactful one. When you go level eight and roll down, let's say you're in a spot with 40 HP, maybe like 50 HP on four two and uh you roll for your board, you find one star carries of your four costs and let's say you have 40 gold left and you can kind of choose to continue rolling for two stars or you can just wait. So, as an extreme example, let's say one player chooses to roll all the way down to 10 or even zero and uh if they have their carry paired, they just continue rolling for the rest of the game. This player might have a very high top four rate because they're going to invest their econ as soon as possible for for their B to be upgraded as early as possible, which saves HP. They're unlikely to go eighth just because they'll win rounds in stage four. Alternatively, another player uh again like 50 HP, 40 gold might choose to econ back back up to 50 and just hold 50 for the rest of the entire game rolling down to 50. Um, so this player might lose more HP during stage four or five because they'll have a weaker board relative to the person who's invested all their econ immediately, but they might have a higher first place rate because their final board, if they were to survive, is going to be worth a lot more gold than the player who didn't make that extra five gold of interest, which um that comes out to almost 30 gold during an entire stage, which is quite a lot. Of course, 30 gold is I mean basically a full gold augment's worth almost depending on when you take it. Um but yeah, I would say this is the single most important factor on determining first or uh whether your graph kind of looks like a bell curve for first through eighth or an inverse bell curve. Some other factors could be greed versus slamming items. Of course, if you invest your items as soon as you get them, you're likely to save HP, which helps you get a high top four rate. So, if you find yourself going eighth too much, you may want to try slamming your items sooner. If you find yourself going top four a lot, but first, not that often, you may want to try slamming less items because by making less items, once you get your next components on either carousels or neutrals, you'll have more possible combinations. uh think about like if you have salvage bin basically you'll have more possible combinations so you can make better item decisions and end up with better final overall item quality. Of course again the cost of that is you'll lose more HP so there might be a higher chance of you going eighth if you're not using your items throughout the game. Another factor is choosing high-risisk augments. Uh I think this one's pretty straightforward. some augments. I think like scoreboard scrapper versus calculated loss is a good one. Example, let's say you're kind of debating between both of these on stage 21. Um they're both lost streak augments, but scoreboard scrapper is a lot more first or eighth because it's just um it's a pretty weak augment until you get into the top four after loss streaking and then it's extremely strong and then you can usually use that to go first. But with calculated loss, it's just a econ augment, it doesn't give you any power benefit. So what usually happens is because it gives you so much econ is you can do your 41 level eight roll down and you can actually usually win the rest of the stage pretty easily just because of all the extra econ you have. But by the end of the game when other players have the same board as you and then they might have a combat augment such as Swber Strapper uh against you, then you're usually not going to go first. Whereas you're rarely going to bought four. Well, I mean, you might with calculate loss since you're playing lost streak, but compared to scoreboard scrapper, you would rarely bought four. Um, but with scoreboard scrapper, you're much more likely to go first having that extra combat at the end of the game. Um, some other like pretty obvious examples I feel like is the crystal gambit augment. That's one where if you are able to cash it out, you can have a pretty high likelihood of going first. But it's also very risky. Uh you might have to frequently go down to one life to try to cash out and take very aggressive fights where you're trying to kill a lot of units without accidentally winning. Uh some other examples of lowrisk augments that are much more low risk and calculate loss could be something like two trick which will just give you a strong board in the early game. It won't give you as much econ as calculated loss. So, by the time you get to stage four, you'll have a weaker board in theory because you have less econ, but you'll have saved a lot of HP in the early game because you'll have such a strong board. The final one here is high-risk lines. Um, Crystal Gambit is the obvious one in set 15, which is the lost streak trait where a lot of times you'll go down to really low HP and then you'll get a cash out and if it's good, you might be able to leverage having that additional resource over the rest of the lobby in order to go first. But because you're so low HP, you might just take a couple bad fights, um, be a little bit behind tempo on your roll down and then die. Uh, it's not just that though. There are other lines that are higher risk or less risk. Um, I would say like one or two cauter roll lines tend to be the lowest risk just because you're going to be strong in stage three almost always with these. Of course, you can low roll. That's always possible. The rest of the lobby can high roll, but generally you're going to be pretty strong in stage three and even stage four. So, you're going to save a lot of HP. You're going to have some power spikes that are fairly guaranteed to hit your three star rerolls uh compared to standard level eight boards. On the other hand, three cost reroll is actually considered higher as often times where if you are able to hit your three cost rrolls, then you should be extremely strong. Um, a three cost three star costs 27 gold. That's pretty crazy. Uh, you know, a two star, four cost is only 12 gold. Uh, but the risk is that you're going to lose a lot of HP getting there. Uh, because of course it's just hard to get there. Um, often times you might be getting this on stage five. So if you bleed too much HP early on and just rotate into someone strong, you might just die. And also they do just talk take a lot of econ and TFT at the end of the day is a variance game. With one and two caut you almost always make it to the three star of your main carry. But with three cauts possible to die before you even make it there. Those are some decisions that you can think about if you want to increase your first place rate or if you want to increase your top four rate. Um, yeah. So, if you have any comments or questions, let me know in the Discord. And thanks for watching.