Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video for shop odds inflection points. Inflection points sounds fancy, but it simply means when is it better to roll on a certain level compared to another level. So these are the shop odds basics. Uh on level four, you have 55% chance of one cost, 30% chance of two cost, 15% chance of three costs, and of course you can't see four cost or five cost on level four. So this is basically um I'll just go through some very common scenarios. The first one, there is a common sentiment that you should roll down to 33 gold for a one cost reroll. Um you should do this if you think there's a chance you can hit your three star on that turn. However, is a pretty common scenario if you're playing something like crew rroll where you're just too far off. You're for sure not going to hit. Uh, in this case, it's better to stay 50 gold. Uh, the reason is if you roll down to 33, what happens is you lose two gold of econ on that round instead of making 50. Um, which is a full shop and then you're going to make 40 on the next round. So, you're going to lose about half a shop on the next round. So, you lose about one and a half shops. The advantage is that you see more level four shops. However, um if we look at math difference, I was already playing around with some of this earlier, but basically because you'll be buying units, you'll see about five more shops on level four. Basically, the difference being you have a 10% higher chance per slot. So, basically, you'll see about five more shops. Uh you'll have five slots, so five times five, and then each one is about 10% chance higher. So you'll see about 2.5 more one costs in those five using those five rolls on level four instead of level five. However, by losing two gold and then one gold, you're losing three gold. You're losing about one and a half shops in one and a half shops. So 1.5 shops times five slots per shop at level five. what you would use these rolls at instead. We can see that uh you'll see on about three and a half one cost. So again, by seeing five extra shots on level four compared to level five, we're seeing two and a half one cost extra. But if we just use that three extra gold despite the reduced odds, overall we're still seeing more one costs. Um, it's not a huge difference either way. Again, the reason a lot of players recommend rolling down lower on level four is if you're close to hitting, you can spike immediately and that's pretty valuable. However, if you're not close to hitting your um let's say you have like four malights, four civers with 50 gold left, you should definitely stop at 50. Um, some other inflection points, uh, level six versus level seven is a very common one where you're playing two cost rroll. However, your board doesn't really fit until level seven. You really want that extra unit in. Um, this could be something like Zia Bastions, for example. On level six, you're playing Zia plus five bastion. Uh, so you kind of really want to get to level seven to play Z in six bastion. However, the downside is you have reduced odds. So, how bad is this? um it will take you about 33 well I should say exactly 33% more shops if you're looking specifically for two costs uh like you might be in the Zia Bastion comp. So, let's say you would normally want to see 30 shops, which is 60 gold rolled, not counting buying units. Uh, you normally need to see 30 more shops to hit Zia from whatever spot you're on. Instead, that will take 40 more shops instead of 30. So, it will cost you 20 more gold. Um, and this is very situational. 20 gold is a lot. So very often times will not want to level to seven and roll. However, of course, you can think of paying this 20 gold uh for those of you who play the set with charms, you can think of paying this 20 gold to play Sex Bastion to gain temporary power. And if that causes you to win two rounds that you would have lost otherwise in stage four, therefore saving more than 20 HP, you're paying 20 gold to save more than 20 HP. that can be worth it. Um, it's situational game by game. Generally, I would recommend just committing to on to rolling on level six just because paying 33 pay you're basically paying a 33% tax on all of your future rolls until you hit uh for the advantage of that six bastion earlier power spike. Um, if you don't pay the extra tax, might just hit in a couple rounds later. So, um, yeah, it's good to just know how much that costs. Sometimes you have to do it, uh, especially if you're playing something like scuttle puddle and you know you will hit a huge influx of econ right when neutrals hits. So, you can kind of get the power spike during that stage that you wouldn't have otherwise because it's cheaper to level than it is to hit a three star. and then you hit on, let's say, 4-1 or 5-1, you hit right after neutrals kind of regardless just because you got so much gold. That's one situation you can do it. But again, generally level six or two cost reroll and don't level until you hit. Um, another common inflection point I would say is looking for legendaries. This is not so common in the current meta where you want just like one copy of a legendary, but before the B patch, this was really common with Yona. So, you can see your five cost odds are four times higher on level 9 than they are on level eight. However, this doesn't necessarily mean you should go to level 9 if you find yourself in a situation where, let's say it's 41 for some reason, you have a ton of econ from an augment or scuttle puddle or something like that. It's 4-1 and you have 100 gold. Um, actually 100 is way too little. Let's actually say like you have like 120 and you're really looking for the Shion. Um, generally it's recommended to roll on level eight instead of level 9. Even though your shop odds are four times higher, you're going to have to spend some gold on buying units. So, in reality, you're not actually going to roll that many times. Um, I would say being very, very generous. Let's say you're only spending uh I I said we start with 120 gold. So being really generous. Let's say you're only spending 20 gold on units. Let's like buying, you know, 20 is not that much. That's say two Jarvin, one Yona, two Karmas. That's already 20 gold without even having a two star. Um so again, this is being generous towards level 9. You would be use 100 gold used to level one roll, right? So after leveling, you would have 20 gold 24 gold left, which is 12 shops. Alternatively, if you use 100 gold on level eight, that's 50 shops. So even though the odds are four times higher, you can see 50 shops instead of 12 shops. And you would actually have the same amount of chance of finding Yona, but of course, you have a much higher chance of actually hitting like Karma 2, Jarvin 2, and stabilizing your board. Um, technically hitting level 9 will give you better shot odds in the future for the rest of the stage. However, when you do this level 9 play, a lot of times you are going to have to roll to zero. And in that case, you're only making half as much gold as, you know, if you're rolling with 120 gold on eight, often times you're going to be able to keep some gold in the bank. So although you're getting better shops at level 9, you don't see as many of them because you won't have the luxury of making interest that you would from rolling on level eight. So I think this is a very very common mistake I see where people kind of have 120 gold, they don't have a board, they go level 9 kind of for these complex seven mighty mech where you really need one legendary and then it's a coin flip. Obviously, you might hit, but most likely your situation is going to be much worse than if you rolled on level eight. That being said, this video is about inflection points. If you had, let's say, 150 gold, now after leveling, you would still have 75 gold after leveling to 9. Now, this is much more efficient to level. In this case, I would definitely level because that's enough gold to try to look for this board. And you're going to use so many more rolls more efficiently. And you can actually think of it as like just to kind of picture it in your head, you can think of it even more extreme situation, right? Let's say we had 300 gold. Um, now if we level the actually leveling is kind of a small part of our overall gold, right? we would still have more than 200 gold left that we can use efficiently compared to 300 gold that we could use kind of inefficiently, right? So, um I would say if you can go level 9 with like 75 gold left, you absolutely should. Um however, if you can go level 9 with like less than 50, I would uh just roll an eight instead and then that will let you save gold, make interest, and then you will still go level 9 at the end of the game anyway. Um, level 9 versus level 10 is another common situation that I think I see a lot of players make a mistake where they just level. Um, I think leveling is kind of the easier thing to do as well APM wise because I think a pretty common situation is let's say we have like enough to see maybe um 10 shops so 20 gold. So let's say we have 114 gold. This might be on stage 71 for example. We're level 9 and we have maybe a fast nine board. Let me just pull up an example here. Um let's say we're playing the juggernaut twisted fate comp. So this is nine units right here. Uh let's just say we have everything to start. So we have le two, we have set two, we have Braum 2, we have everything two, we have TF2 except for Zyra. And now it's stage 71 61. And we have 114 gold, right? I see a lot of players level in this spot. Um, you do get to play an extra unit, which is nice. So, Shen will give you like the crew and Bastion. Um, but now after we level, we have enough to see. We need 10 more gold to even buy two Zyus. So, we can only see if we have 30 gold after leveling, we can only see 10 shops, right? So 10 shops and the odds are double compared to level 9. Alternatively, we could roll that 100 gold on level 9. So instead of seeing 10 shops, we do get to play the shen. Seeing 10 shops and gambling for the Zyra. Instead, we could see 50 shops. We're almost guaranteed the Zy 2 at this point. We won't have the sh so we're down a unit. However, this line is just much much much stronger because if you level, of course, there's a chance you hit Desire 2, but most likely you're adding the Shen. Your board doesn't become that much stronger compared to if you roll 50 gold on nine, you get the desire to that is a lot stronger. In fact, sometimes you'll get lucky and you'll hit early enough that you will still have enough gold left over to go 10 anyway, despite using your gold a little bit less efficiently on level 9. So, uh, these are some things to think about when deciding when to level one roll versus rolling on the level you're currently on. That's going to wrap it up for this video on shop odds inflection points. If you have any comments or questions, know the Discord. And thanks for watching.