Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video on teamwide combat augments versus item augments. Uh, just basic fundamentals on what to think about when you're debating which one of these to pick between. So, I guess I'll use gold augments as a baseline. You can use silver or um you can use silver or prismatic. Basically, if you just look at the item components, it gives you a decent idea of how much each one is worth. So, silver item grab bag gives you about two components. Gold big grab bag gives about three. Prismatic fairy treasures gives about six. Um, there's other stuff like belt overflow, which only gives five, but then gives you an extra bonus. Um, the team wide combats scale very similarly where basically the prismatic's worth about double what the gold is. The gold is worth about 50% more than than what the silver is. Uh, so teamwide combats tend to give values that are a lot less than items. Uh, there's a really good reason for this, which is basically that they allow you to break the cap that you can get without augments because normally by the end of the game, let's say you have a Ash two as your carry, you have three items on her, you have your power up on her, you're playing duelists. Um, the only way you can make your ash stronger on top of that is generally with team wide combat augments. Um, so to compensate for this, they have to be weaker than item augments until you get those three items on. So if we look at something like best friends for example, uh, this gives one and a half bows and one chain vest to your entire team. Uh so basically two and a half components you can kind of think of a full item generally is worth about seven components. Um you can kind of compare death cap which is worth about seven rods. Death blade is worth about seven swords. Warm mobs. Uh pretty similar. It's worth about seven belts. It can be a bit more or less depending on how much HP your unit has. But basically, when you take an augment like um Best Friends 2, it's worth about 13 of an item on your entire team. Um if we look at something like Best Friends 1, it's worth about 1/4 of an item on your entire team. So, if we look at the early game where we only have four units, 1/4 of an item on our entire team, you might think that's about equal to one item, but it's actually a lot less because um of multiplexive scaling. We're going to have components we start the game with. We have a power up and most importantly, we probably have one unit that is a two star. while most of our board is one star and we're putting support units to activate synergies for our upgraded unit. So while best friends kind of makes our entire team a little bit better, having something like item grab bag, basically having an extra item is actually worth quite a lot more because we can use that on our two star unit. We scale it with our other items and our powerup us. So early game item is worth a lot more than a teamwide combat augment. Uh, however, late game when we already have three items on our carry, we have the power up, we have all the supporting units, we can't actually make we actually can't put a fourth item on our carry, right? So, the only way to make them stronger in the late game is by having these team white combats, which also just overall give a lot more value later on because when you're giving this to eight different units compared to only four different units, that is worth a lot more. Whereas again, if we have an item augment, often times we're not even going to be able to put on our main carry since um typically you're going to be able to deck out your primary your most important units um without item augments. By by stage 51, you get a minimum of seven full items no matter what uh every single game. Sometimes you'll get more. So you can always have three items to carry, three item tank plus a supporting item such as an anti-heal item. So in that case, if you have extra item augments by the end of the game, they're often times going to be going on your supporting weaker units or your off carries. So they're actually losing value. Whereas these teamwide combat augments allow you to amplify your carries even more. So basically, because TFT is a mixture of playing the early game and the late game, you're not just trying to get to the strongest endame board. you're also trying to, you know, make it there by saving HP in the early game. Uh, generally it's recommended to take item augments early on and then teamwide combat augments later on depending on how good your spot is or what comp you're playing. Um, you may opt into one or the other if you're kind of going for like a top fourish build. Basically, you might realize your spot is not that good. you didn't you didn't have any like streaks in the early game. Um you might offer more item augments just to save HP and you know you're going to get out capped anyway. You're not playing for first. But if you're in a really good spot, you're high rolling, you're hitting a lot of natural upgrades, uh you you have a lot of gold from win streaking, you may opt to skip item augments in order to get those teamwide combat augments. Because at the end of the day, when it comes to first place versus second place, it's very, very frequently decided by who has better teamwide combats. because um especially if you're both playing the same comp. If we each have an Ash 2, a set two, we're each playing like juggernaut ash. We both have Asht two, we both have set two. Um we both have the same items, we both have the same powerups. At the end of the day, what's going to decide that? It's not that you're you're off carry. Maybe you have a Udier with three items. That doesn't actually do that much for your entire team. or as I might have a teamwide combat that makes my ash and my set even stronger and that's going to make the difference. That's going to wrap it up on this video for team wide combat versus item augments. If you have any comments or questions, let me know in the Discord and thanks for watching.