Hey everyone, it's Asa and welcome to my video on even versus odd components. When you end the game on stage 5.1, you don't get any more components. With a even number of components, it's really good. If you end with an odd number of components, that extra component is basically useless. So, you're kind of think of it as being down half an item. Most of this tends to be just random. uh from the start of the game, you're about 50/50 to have an even or odd number of components. However, specifically, I want to focus on your 42 augment, which is the round where you have the most control over this change. So, if we look at stage four loot, I don't know the exact odds of base loot versus high loot. However, I do know base loot is significantly more common. Um, so if you look at the base loot table, we can see that we actually only have a 15% chance of getting an even number of components from the stage 4 neutral round specifically. This includes the anvil and of course is the last time in the entire game that you will get any components unless you have something like Tomkench or eight yortals that can give you components. Uh so we can see that 85% of the time overwhelmingly often stage four neutrals will give us an odd number of components. Uh if you're just watching your games you will usually get dropped two components plus the anvil. Of course, it won't happen every time, but that's usually what happens. Uh, so if we include the fact that we get one more component from the stage 4 carousel, that means that when we are choosing our augment on 42, we will get four more components most of the time. This is really important because if you get offered something that gives an odd number of components, something like Mac's will, big grab bag, uh any of those, and you already have an even number of components, that means that big grab bag will usually only be one total item by the end of the stage. Because if you already have an even number of components, that'll set you at an odd number. And then as we discussed, you will get four more total components most of the time, which is the one from carousel and then three from the stage four neutrals. Likewise, if [clears throat] you're on the flip side where you have an odd number of components going into 42, then something like big grab bag becomes a lot more appealing because that will set you to an even number of components. it will most likely give you two full items instead of one full item by the end of the stage. Basically doubling the value of the augment, which is a very very very big deal. There are a couple of exceptions uh because the minimum amount of components you can get is 11 and the maximum is 15. In theory, there are some distributions where you get minimum components throughout stage one, stage two, and stage three where um if you get so few components, then it's actually impossible to get the three component drop. However, I don't think you actually need to worry about this in game because if you do end up in that situation, then big grab bag is probably just really good regardless on stage 42 when everyone is lacking items and then you can maybe have three item tank, three item carry, whereas other players who don't have item augments are unable to achieve it. Furthermore, I think it's just pretty rare. Uh, and again, no one really knows exactly how it works. I'm sure it could be figured out, but I think it's not really that relevant to think about. So, once again, the main thing to know is that on stage 42, you will most likely get an even amount of components after you choose your augment. That's going to wrap it up for this video on even versus odd components. If you have any comments or questions, let me know in the Discord. And thanks for watching.