Hello everyone, welcome back to another episode of TFT Study Hall with your TFT Academy hosts. My name is FroDan. And I'm Dishsoap. And it's 15.7b. It's the beginning of the end. This is the night before regionals. By the time you guys watch this, regionals will be partially done. It's pretty intentional given that there's going to be some stuff that we talk about that probably come to surface during what is many people consider this the most important weekend of the of the season because it was leads to the world championship. And for many people, this is what's all been building towards. So we have two-time world champion Dishsoap who also qualified for a yet another regional finals and it's been kind of deep in the tank. And not only that, we also had a B patch. So as we were getting ready for this tournament or sorry for this patch, we're talking about should we do study hall, kind of waited till after the weekend and then they announced that they're going to be doing a B patch. So now that we've had some time with 15.7 and the B patch, Dishsoap, how has scrims been? How's been the patch so far? I mean it's like for sure the best patch of the set, I guess. I think so too. Yeah, like I don't really know if it's a good patch but it's definitely the best patch of the set. >> Trending upwards. For sure. The previous patch was like absolutely disgusting. The seven mech, man. We have to talk about it. That I think it's like one of the most tech heavy like obnoxious comp set that we've ever had B S-tier because there was so many like intricacies of how you would fish for the mech pilot and all these different small things about it. So I'm glad that it's kind of dead even though I think a lot of people were sad cuz they missed a lot of time to learning it. Yeah, I I I guess I was underrating the comp for a while cuz like I kind of always like had the impression that it was like a you and I check and that's just kind of weird to play place your game plan around. But once I realized like if you have six feeds on the pilot or like if you have a six feeds for mech pilot like even with six mech like it's actually for sure stable enough and like once like that was clear it just kind of took over. Like meching the Aatrox instead of the Lucian Senna. Yeah, yeah, we optimized it further. Yeah. So like the like the five 10% optimizations just add up and then it it just kind of like it combined with other comps getting nerfed just made the it kind of overpowered. Yeah, so we talked about the 15.7 patch which you know brought a lot of small buffs a lot of the mid trades like sorcerer, soul fighter. You saw sniper being buffed, maybe more on that in a little bit and some buffs to four cost but it was really about mech. And then the B patch kind of hits. And then I mean, I feel like it's safe to say mech is dead. It feels like at least at least in terms of the way we know it with the mech pilot. 60 to 25%, 70 to 35% and then they took Neeko out back and made it really slow comparatively. And these changes alongside the shop no longer briefly appear augments for the armories have kind of opened up a lot more of the meta game. And so with the mech passing, what do you feel like you've seen mostly in the meta game? People talk about fast nine and fast nine and then reroll. What else is there right now in the meta you think? Outside of what you just mentioned, like what's really really popular right now is a crystal Ash. Um Debatable what tier it should be in cuz the win rate is disgusting but it's a pretty hard comp to play and I'm pretty sure the eighth rate's also pretty high if you don't know what you're doing. Also if you just miss, you're dead. Like a few optimizations like like there's this like fury break tech. We have it featured on the site. It's doesn't It's not like It's not like these old fruit techs where it's just like insta win broken like makes a new comp kind of thing. It's it's not like stretch arms GP or whatever but it something solid like it lets you save eight gold and roll down cuz instead of buying three like nine gold worth of Udyrs, you buy like one Kale. And it just gives you the damage which can help you like do well on stage four. I don't think you're supposed to end on this board or like you I don't think you're supposed to end on fury break Kale. You're probably supposed to uh What I do is I go mana rush side or like like I guess you can go like tank zilean cuz that's well it's fine. Mhm okay. Like like eventually you get to the point where you don't need it but it's just kind of nice like on like 4-1 exactly. Um Yeah, you keep it on Ash, right? Like the the fruit on Ash. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You need a fruit on Ash. Like the the fury break doesn't work if you don't have like it gives the attack speed to the other fruit units. Yeah, I think when you when you when you move it to Zyra, you're still going on Ash cuz the thing about fury break is it feels like it was really important for like the Kraken build to get the DPS going. Yeah, yeah, fury break is to just uh scale up the Kraken. I don't think you should you should do it if you don't have more than one Kraken. Um I mean you you can get off Ash fruit Giga like him. Like if you have like LeBlanc two, Braum two items, you can do like LeBlanc mana rush Zyra or something. Okay, okay. So it's funny cuz you you were updating this for the site I think a day or two ago and then I decided to like basically try to play it a lot. I played a lot on stream and I was coming to the same conclusion. I'm like, am I supposed to like stay on this? Am I you know, I feel like I don't know exactly what to play if I get a ton of resources, right? And so I I ended up playing like uh I ended up staying on fury break with the Kraken and it still felt like pretty reasonably strong as well. So I think there's a lot of exploration to be done with this comp and it's really popular in scrims you were telling me. It's really popular in China regionals. They're jamming it all the time. And you so I think in the hands of a skilled player, this is a comp position that is going to really do a lot of work this patch, I think. Yeah, like Ash is not like OP. The unit is barely strong enough but that's kind of all you need. Like if you can just get a few five crystal cash outs and then just be like slightly up resource on the lobby, it just like snowballs and then like eventually you just have enough resources where you can't lose. Yeah. Um Yeah, I don't know. They The thing is they even like kind of prepared for this. They they they like nerfed five crystal a few times like like on the PVE. Yeah. Like to like hit like the real versions. And then I guess it's not enough. They needed to nerf it more. It's so funny because I don't know if you've been keeping track. They literally have changed crystal gambit every patch this set. Literally every patch. It's either been like nerfing either some kind of like seven crystal, five crystal and they buffed three crystal. Then they nerfed like stage four crystal and there's all these different stuff. Yeah, and so overall they did yet another pass of five crystal nerf. Actually speaking of which by the way, it seemed like you didn't put any stock in like the reroll crystal variations. Those are like still staying in the bottom. Is that version of crystal actually weak or is it because so many people are playing crystals like hard to get to? Like what why why is such a big power gap difference? Is it just the raw difference between Ash versus like Malzahar and Ori? I mean if you have this exact board with three stars, that's pretty good, I guess but I'm telling you right now in these scrims there's like at least two crystal Ash players per lobby which means like if you include like one person probably playing around Bastions, that's like nine that's like nine wins gone. Yeah, yeah, we agree. Yeah. Like Malzahar's pretty common as well or Malzahar's I think it's called heavyweight is pretty common as well. So Just like a you just have to be in a really weird really really weird spot to angle it. At least in the metas I've been seeing so I just don't think it's Like I like I don't know. Like like maybe you can say it's B-tier cuz the board's actually good but like I don't think you're ever actually really in a spot to play it. Yeah. There's just too many units gone. It makes sense, right? It's there's a lot of comps that are like that where they theoretically could be good but you know you're never going to be able to get to like you said the Bastion boards cuz fast nine Bastions is very very common and if it's not fast nine Bastions with TF and Seraphine, you're going for like Juggernauts and trying to play around LeBlanc because those are two of the strongest five cost to play around right now. I think a lot of people actually are curious in terms of how you kind of determine whether or not you can go level nine versus staying level eight. This is sort of like jumping to the very end of this podcast where we usually do like a topic but since we're kind of like here and we're kind of just mismatching, we're just going straight into it. When you're like you know in a spot where you could roll on eight or like you know let's say you're playing a Bastion. Like what's the difference between going like Bastions and trying to play something like Yumi versus like you know that you can go to nine cuz you know you're going to have enough gold to make it. Like how do you make those reads, Dishsoap? Um typically you're only angling these like fast nine Giga high cap boards if you have HP to work with or just a disgusting amount of gold where it doesn't matter. But typically what you're going to do is you're going to win streak stage two and stage three and then leverage that gold for like a stage four like double down crystal setup. Um and then hopefully you're not cashing out with one life. Hopefully it's like two to three lives. And then you use that that like cash out the gold from the cash out to like fund your level nine. Um obviously there's like augments and like portals that enable you to like do it without crystal or if you're just like really really ahead for whatever reason but that's typically what you're going to be doing to get into this like I want to say like 70% of the time. Yeah. Um if you don't have the HP to leverage like you need to like Like like if you're losing in stage three, you have to be like pretty cognizant that like oh you can't play fast nine cuz you just don't have the HP to to sacrifice. So >> Right. You have to be planning to like actually play on level eight and maybe like adjust your itemization accordingly. Maybe don't make like the Seraphine items. Maybe like use those components. Like like maybe like play some Jinx. Maybe like save your items on like Voli like Bastions. Like if you have like the full Bastion setup but like not the other stuff, you just like Voli items and then maybe you can like hit up Voli too early and then go like nine on like mid stage five off of that. Um but yeah, you you just have to kind of like react to like your spot as the game progresses. You can't really like go into a game 2-1 and be like, oh [ __ ] I'm [ __ ] fast nine. It's lit. Yeah, yeah. Like if 4-1 you're 50 HP, it's not possible. So Yeah, I want one concept I want to hone in here is that if you're not fast nine, that doesn't mean you can't play for level nine. It's just that you can't rush there and be the first person to roll for those five costs, which is pretty important, but there are scenarios where you can play like you know, we're talking about things like the the Volibear board, right? If you just play around a good Volibear and there's only one variation of Volibear. There's actually multiple variations you can play. People are now kind of splashing in Volibear and Jinx, right? We see people like play more snipe they call it sniper flex, which is kind of like the variations we were playing in the past where they buff their snipers and you can play like a variation of frontline. You don't have to play vertical Star Guardians. You can just kind of splash in whatever high quality units end on Bram. So you do have like the ability to play on these four costs. People just kind of obsessed over like oh, if I have the gold to roll on eight or if I have to go to roll on nine, surely I can chase these five costs, but in the end if you don't if you just don't have the HP, you're going to you're just going to be die dead dead on like the one star version of the board. And the one star version of the legendaries is pretty bad. I think people like really mess up on that. Question about the differences here. Do you prefer Bastion or Juggernaut? Let's say you're like theoretically in the spot where you could play either, right? Like you're holding a lot of the cheaper units and you're kind of in between. Is there like something that you lean towards when you have like such an open-ended situation? In my opinion, like at cap, they're like pretty equal strength. I'll say they have like good matchups and bad matchups mostly just depending on how good Seraphine is, but um Like the thing the thing is about Juggernaut is you're only stable on level nine with Lee Sin. And if you don't have Lee Sin, you're not stable, which is the problem. Like I like on on Bastion, uh you can be missing like you can be stable on like TF1, Seraphine one, or Bram one. Like if you have like the others upgraded, but like in Juggernaut, if you have Zyra two, Bram two, who who cares? You you don't have like TF2, who cares? You don't have Lee Sin. Um cuz he's he's like a melee carry like the like the HP the scaling is he's like a biggest upgrade. And you're like giving him six Juggernaut, so if he's not a two star, you're going to be very sad. And that's why I think Juggernaut's like a lot more volatile. Given the fact that like people I mean honestly like I might want to like move this down. Cuz the thing is like every single Ash player is like holding holding all the Lee Sins they hit on like their giga 41 roll down. So Everyone plays Lee Sin, man. People just splash in Lee Sin a lot of times in the game. Like like the comp is literally like a Lee Sin Lee Sin two. Okay. We should probably change the maybe the the portrait then. It just ends up being Lee Sin for the portrait. Uh I noticed that in a lot of the builds, and this is because of the builder limitation, almost every database doesn't have Lee Sin as like the Juggernaut. You have to put the Juggernaut emblem just to signify that you're playing him. Uh what's like the third item for Lee Sin that you really want if you're building like these crit items on him? I think the crit items are fine. I actually kind of prefer I mean okay, I honestly like I I don't know. I like I I don't really Usually I'm not like in the spot to choose, but Yeah, I think whatever items you have. Yeah, the the the thing is I low-key [ __ ] with the like on the edge like triple like BT Sterak's like like BT Sterak's hot like triple defensive and you go on the edge for like your your damage. >> damage. Yeah, that's pretty good. I think that's pretty good. Like the the thing is like I feel like you just put any any sort of AD melee like whatever like healing. And like I like I really don't think you could be picky with your best on fast nine cuz it's usually going to be what you made in like stage three and four to save HP. So Any thoughts on the Gather Force Blue Buff Lee Sin that I've seen people also play? I I've been recommended it. I tried it and I'm like I feel like it's okay, I guess. I mean it's it's Lee Sin two, so I can't tell if it's because of the grade or just because of the Lee Sin. >> it I'm pretty sure it's fine. Um In general, I think if I don't have like a lot of defensive items, uh question for there. Okay, I wish I could put these fruits here, but I I I like I prefer like unflinching. Um >> Yeah, unflinching is good, too. As like my defensive one. Um but yeah, on on the edge Gather Force are pretty good defensive. I I haven't like tried the Blue Buff because like I feel like if I have like a Blue Buff, there's like a lot of good Blue Buff holders. Like you want to you want to put it on Bram or like Zyra or something. Yeah. Yeah, fair enough. Fair enough. >> like kind of hard to allocate the items. Um I know in particular mana Zane Gather Force is kind of nasty. Um I've had that set up in in Crystal, not not in cuz you could actually farm some mana Zanes, but not not in this version. Dude, it's funny because whenever you play Crystal, it feels like you get like one or four mana Zanes. >> [laughter] >> One or the other. Okay, let's talk about the other some of the other reroll comps that are in the the meta right now. Katarina still really good. I Last time we we we talked about it, the positioning for Katarina something like this. People are still doing that. Have we have we just have we settled on whether or not this is a good or bad for the comp? I I I think this is like broken if people are not paying attention. Okay. I I I do not think this is uncounterable. It is very counterable, actually. Okay. That's that I mean we saw that happen in tournaments as well. People get themselves in trouble by positioning like this. Yeah. I I don't know. I I think I late game at least I prefer I definitely prefer um I don't know. Like I like like a tank Zilean or a Rocket Grab and then like do some more standard positioning. Mm. Uh but like this is very good at catching people off guard. Yeah. >> Um sometimes people have like some insane fast nine Crystal setups. And like if they're not paying attention, this might be the only way you could win. Like being unstoppable cheese. Whereas like like even if like technically they're not supposed to get got by you, um just like doing this like like I I I like I don't know. Like there's some there's some spots it comes up. Like if you're playing default and like it's they get they get punished, but usually people don't get punished. >> I feel like this Katarina might be one of the hardest like positioning intensive comps or at least it puts a premium on understanding what you can do with positioning to manipulate your opponent. Assuming assuming you you are the position to capitalize on it. I feel like there's a lot of small little nuances with that. Not just unstoppable, but even like the Rocket Grab that you described. I think a lot of people are not really thinking about how Rakan actually utilizes that. If you do it in a playing game. That actually applies not only to that, but also to heavyweight Malzahar. People are playing a lot of Oh wait, actually you have we have the fruit on Poppy, but I've been seeing them play Rocket Grab on Darius a lot as well. I'm sorry. I'm I'm going to change some things. >> [laughter] >> We we we need to make a couple updates. Our bad. I mean part of it is, you know, there's there's a lot of there's actually a lot of relic leftover from some of these other patch stuff. So we'll we'll we'll make some updates. Never mind that. Whoops, sorry. Uh Yeah, I I think I think what I did is I updated the Darius fruits and then I didn't realize we didn't have the Darius fruit highlighted on the comp. Yeah. Like I like I I was I was I was pretty sure it was oh yeah, I updated the Darius fruit and then it's like oh, I didn't actually assign Oh, assign it. It's all good. Yeah, yeah. It does like this whole back end. I mean I show it on stream sometimes, but there's a lot when you when you look at the back end, it actually gets kind of overwhelming with all the different stuff. Okay, while you do that, let's talk about some of the other comps that are starting to make some room. How about let's talk about um Jinx a little bit. We mentioned it briefly. Jinx is starting to come back a little bit in some variations. Not just Star Guardians, but people playing other um like state they call it sniper flex. Uh thoughts thoughts on Jinx right now? Who who who was calling this sniper flex? I feel like it's the exact same board. Well, it's it's labeled as such in China region when Clement was doing stats. I started watching some CN games. Other people are talking about it. They just call it sniper flex because you play Poppy and then you just kind of it's it's the it's the same old like Star Guardian, but you don't have to play as many Star Guardians. You can just like mix and match like heavyweight protector and Bastion of some sort. Um but that's but that's why they call it sniper flex. Okay, I I I think that's a little bit misleading. I think like the two boards you can play with Jinx is like you can play K'Sante, Nico, and you can play uh like Voli plus like a Lucian or I think K'Sante's like a lot better just cuz it's K'Sante. But the thing is uh lots of Crystal players, they all roll for K'Sante usually before you roll cuz they're usually like They're rich. >> [clears throat] >> like as you do. I've had some success taking like two one sniper prismatic cuz it gives you a IE. I like IE and Caitlyn. I specifically take it when I have like a Shojin and a frontline. I've done this like a couple times. And you just play Jinx and then I like I like on 42 roll down for like Voli and Jinx and you like sniper the Voli, but like you don't actually want to end on Voli. You just you just play the Voli for like uh stage four and then like half a stage five and then you sell the Voli and then you sniper the Seraphine and it's pretty good. But >> Oh, okay. Okay, I like that. Uh And is it and and you end three sniper or two? Oh no, you you you keep the Varus for sure. Okay. It's like enough. Cuz it's But like I I that's like a pretty useful one. I literally only play with the sniper prismatic two one. But yeah, I I don't know. The the comps the comps fine. Specifically why it's doing a little bit better is I don't think the itemization is as as rigid as it is in the past. You don't need any of the shield items anymore cuz his best defense is like nerfed. So you just usually take it's like tank Zilean or body change on Poppy. Um and then Jinx, you don't actually need to go gather anymore. Um After like Rageblade Kraken changes, um like buffs rather, uh you can go Rageblade Kraken. It's fine. It actually performs like very well. Uh people for the fruits for that, I see people like going like ramping rage. I see like a little bit of hyperactive, but usually the hyperactive they don't go against you. It's like hyperactive like with uh like one or two Krakens with like with like full damage. Um but like ramp ramping rage Kraken against you, I see that a lot. Um Like Sky Piercer they don't want Shred. So it's something like that. But like the crack the I think the Kraken gets you stuff has kind of come back on Jinx. So it's safe to say that the Kraken buff is a big deal for some of the other boards. >> Kraken grab Kraken grab is huge. All like all >> [laughter] >> all the comps at the top of A tier you see that they have the upright upright is mostly cuz of the Kraken grab. Yeah, so so the best the best possible thing you want to see is when you load up into a TFT game is you get a bow drop cuz it means like oh if you natural bunch of eyes you can play Xayah. If uh like you have a good crystal spot you can play some five crystal Ash. If you're like too contested on Ash you can like pivot out into Jinx. Like you just put yourself in like an option like you you put you put yourself in a spot where there's just so many options. Um it's just kind of crazy. I'm I'm like valuing like a lot of like the Pandoras and uh like component buffet a lot higher. I think bows are kind of at a premium this meta just cuz it lets you play so wide. Um but yeah I think it's hard to get to get one off carousel too. Like you're just never going to get one. Yeah like Jinx is good. I think it caps lower than a lot of the other stuff and you need to be playing it usually from a head. You need to hit your units. Don't really want to be contested but uh it's it has a valid place in the meta for sure. Okay. And the other one I noticed that we promoted here was Smolder as well. Uh specifically the heavyweight version of Smolder. I thought that was pretty surprising. I mean this is just like slightly worse version of the Malzahar board but if you just have Smolders and Darius it's it's like it's all pretty good. But like we have this ranked in A tier and the other one ranked in A is for a reason so. Yeah, so alternative. I guess the situation here would be if you just find a bunch of monster trainer slash get a bunch of swords. Yeah, just like a unit like item thingy. Alternative. Do you think it's fair to characterization to say say that these kinds of heavyweight boards are more skewed towards like being able to get Darius? People say that it's like oh yeah it's like Malzahar heavyweights but it's actually a little bit more about Darius. Like people sometimes don't even don't even have that many items on Malzahar. I I think I think Darius is the primary unit in the comp. Um reason being is this rocket grab for it is so [ __ ] broken on this unit on a heavyweight. And and Darius with his damage like what you do is you legit just go full damage Darius. And then every single time he procs rocket grab you get a 20% base you get a 20% shield that's off the the HP. Like like every like like it's actually so broken how much shielding you get from this. And you also get like a little bit of CC and like displacement which is nice and he gets like he has like no downtime. But like if you play it if you play a fight with rocket grab every single fight Darius has like 8 9k shield which is just disgusting and it gives time for the Malzahar and the Smolder to ramp up and like kill the backline. Um so you just want to go like as much damage on Darius as you can as possible. Uh like like hot like you usually end up with like a hot jar like a B tier or something just for like early game but like I think you might want to go like last item like Titans or like DB like true bis. Like if you're somehow there but like I mean like there's a little bit healing is probably fine. But you get most of this he gets most of his sustain from rocket grab. And uh you just whittle down the backline with your dual carry. Yeah, I played a game of this today and I put Titans on Darius and I said you know what I'll probably move off of this later cuz I want more damage. And then I played rocket grab and I'm like you know what actually I might just stay here. Uh ended up being really really good. Also there's a really interesting dynamic with rocket grab in particular which is what happens if there's a Katarina player in the lobby. Uh and because of that people tend to position differently cuz they try to avoid Kat like within they they they try to do like a like a anti Sejuani we call the anti Sejuani positioning where they leave like gaps in the frontline to try to isolate the tank so that way Kat gets pulled inwards. But by doing so sometimes it actually allows Darius to do some really disgusting things with rocket grab where I've had him like rocket grab after this like cuz the the frontline is a little bit displaced immediately grabs a corner unit and then just like dunks it. So there's some really crazy interactions with rocket grab that if you haven't tried yet can actually just be game winning on the spot because you just catch people who are trying to position for other people. Yeah I don't know I just put them in the corner. I feel like it does fine. >> [laughter] >> Ideally you want to be on the same side cuz it's you get like kind of you yank their backline if they if their frontline moves to the other side. Yeah yeah that's what I'm saying you don't have to do anything. You just play this and then he just randomly grabs top corner unit sometimes because of the way people position weirdly from other stuff. Okay. Uh let's talk about some of other stuff. Some may maybe some of the greatest hits left remaining in the meta. So is there any composition that you think also deserves a shoutout here in the B or C tier cuz I I think we're still kind of in the same thing where it's like this category somewhere somewhere around the middle of the C tier. They're all kind of like the sameish. Uh we don't actually have it on the list but I think we need to make like another either like another Bastion or Volibear variation where you play the specific board is level nine four Edge Lords six Bastion. You play six Bastions and then you play Yasuo uh Samira Volibear or or like you you can play Yone over Yasuo or Samira as well. Um that board can also fit in level eight with either plus one Bastion or plus one Edge Lord. I usually plus one Bastion cuz plus one Edge Lord is kind of dog [ __ ] But um like that's a variation that's pretty popular. It means you can like play around Bastions like with like full AD. Um and you kind of just like like snowball and like kill people that way. Um I I would say that's like probably in like high B low A tier range. Um I see it fairly often. Huh I thought we actually did have that. I remember make I guess I didn't save it. there there I I'm sure there was a six Bastion Volibear board here sometime but it's probably tanky bear or whatever like that. You would put the Bastion Volibear. It's like but it's a variation of that. I'm sure we have it hidden on the site somewhere. >> [laughter] >> Um Yeah. But yeah that that board's fine. I I also think Janna is like really good. But the the problem is uh these these crystal players make it like really hard to hit. Like on 4-1 there's like like nine gone and then you're just dead. Like you can't play it you can't play it if there's a crew player like period because the crew player will hold excess. Uh and then like all the crystal players will hold like a couple copies so it's just unplayable like if there's a crew player. But even without a crew you have to like be kind of a you kind of have to get lucky or like be a lot ahead on copies or just like not many crystal players. But I think this board's like actually like pretty well suited into the meta. Like Ash is pretty vulnerable to getting uh like Kassadin or getting like Jarvan plus Kabuko plus like Janna. Um the caps decent. I don't know. I've had good results when I can actually hit but that's the problem. Yeah hit it hitting's the hard part but uh I got rolled by this really hard as well today. I was like oh still looks pretty good. So I agree. I feel like I mean still the one thing we didn't really add is that the importance of being able to play around like itemized Ryze in the late game having your dual carry there because you just have a lot of damage through a second Ryze too which is I think something that people aren't used to if you're not playing uh too much Ryze these days but remember a while back they actually buffed Ryze so he's actually still pretty good. Specifically they they're they're they buffed like not the mentor version though right? No they didn't didn't they just give him like a base damage increase? Okay maybe maybe maybe. I thought they like buffed like the non They did both I think but um it was like both mentor and base I believe. But now I'm starting to question myself maybe because because now when you ask I'm like well now I I I'm worried I have that wrong but I think that was that was either way that wasn't 15.7 that was 15.6. Yeah but like the rest of the comps here are like fine maybe and you can like play them and do well if you have like very good spots but you're probably not going to be very like if you consistently play them you're not going to get good results right? Yeah yeah exactly. I I know a lot of people who try Gangplank reroll and you know it's not very good unless you can super high roll like the very specific things of like artifact or radiant. I see people try to do it with Jayce. People are like I only play it if I get Silvermere Dawn and then I have like you know a lot of econ I can try to go for that. Like that's that's how situational it gets but I think this comp is so bad. I have no idea why people play it. Like for for a while I've no idea why people have played this for a while. But I think Like like it's it's been like you see you see it like here and there but like I feel like even if you hit it so bad. >> [laughter] >> Um I I I feel like it's because people feel like it hurts really hard when you're on the receiving end of it. Like I know a lot of people like I think I remember I was I I was watching a streamer lose to it and they're like oh my god when they like Kayle and Jayce is not even good but when they get it it just feels so strong and they lost and that that streamer went seventh and they left the game. I went and checked the lobby afterwards. Like Kayle and Jayce play went sixth. But it's but like but they but losing to it because it looks so good and because they were because they went seventh they didn't even see the result of it. And I feel like that stuck with me cuz I feel like when people lose to it they're like oh my god this comp hits so hard but then the reality is the comp isn't actually that good when you play it. So it's it's interesting. Yeah it's it's like all about cheese and if you don't execute the the backline snipe once you just fall over. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> If they position anything frontline and like Kayle just shoots into a dead like if if she shoots into Kassadin twice you're like oh my god he doesn't do anything. So And then you have like no like like late fight like when everything else is wrapped up you just have no way to win. Yeah you can't beat fast nine cuz you're so slow. So good luck getting past six Bastion fast nine with that board. All right uh that does it for our meta section. Uh let's go ahead and head over to factor fraud. All right factor fraud we're going to throw out a statement about the meta. In this case we're going to throw out statements about set 15. There was a dev learnings article that was posted by Riot talking about the learnings from set 15. And I feel like you know Dishsoap and I usually talk about like what is good in the meta and how to play it but we can take a step back even talk about maybe just how Riot viewed the direction of the set and different things about it. So just wanted to toss out some statements and just see where we are at with it. So, the very first one, Factor Fraud, they let's start off positive here. Statement number one, the roles revamp was a successful rework to the unit class system. This is the change to the mana where tanks get mana but fighters do not but they got different things. At one point they got omni vamp, now they get attack speed and then they changed the way back liners gain mana as well with marksmen and specialists. So, I kind of want to say now that we've had a full set to play with it just so Factor Fraud, the roles revamp has been successful for TFT. We're starting out positive? Yeah, starting starting on the positive note. So, that cuz then we can go into the The thing the thing is long term this is probably true but like this set combined with like the power ups like specifically for melees like they just like ignored all of this like like Akali Viego uh like GP all like like did disgusting things cuz of the role revamp that wouldn't have happened normally. Um it like made all the itemization weird. They like nerfed against who just cuz like it was too good on melees but then like they like nerfed all the melees and then like against who was dead for three patches. Um they had to like nerf Akali like three times because like the role it was just going like infinite cuz they just made her solo mana. I still think units like Neeko Fury are so obnoxious in like the early game and like they're so over tuned in the early game because like it's balanced around the fact that late game you do nothing cuz you just don't get any mana. I think they like I I still don't think they have they they they have solutions to like Titans and like BT. I think those items are just like really really out of place in like after the role revamp unless like it's like a hero augment you just have like so much healing that or like so much healing and HP you can justify it cuz the thing is like in the past like Titans and BT were actually justifiable because like it enabled you to cast cuz he just keeps you alive but like now that doesn't happen so you just have these weirdest like for instance like Voli like has never wanted to build BT ever. Like your four your four cost melee just never wants to build the BT because of our roles revamp like like I don't know. Like same with Akali. Well, it's it's funny you mentioned that cuz I was going through stats today with Bros here to to do some commentary regionals for me this weekend and we actually both saw that BT was pretty decent on Volibear but that's uh we couldn't tell if that was real. >> [laughter] >> They you you can never like actually like like in a unit okay like me going into this will be too long but I I'm very I'm I know for a fact BT is not good Voli item. Okay, okay. I I I'm not here to debate you. I'm just I just I thought that was interesting. There's a variety of reasons why it would be like better at in the stats than it actually is. Okay. Um but probably another time. >> [laughter] >> Okay, sounds good. Maybe in our final episode of the set. But yeah, I I I think roles revamp was not very successful for melee. Um I also this is like kind of nitpicky. It's probably like most people don't think this but like watching the fights just looks weird like after like three like five years of like expecting to get mana like after a hit. Like like in the in the end fight if your unit has like 60% mana like what would what would usually happen is they would like hit you a couple times and then like your back liner would like actually win the clutch but now there's no clutching cuz your unit just dies cuz you can't cast. Like like unless you were like already casting but I mean I think we'll get used to that but I do know what you're talking about. The whiplash of like expectations of how the fight would play out have been subverted a lot this set. But I think that so in I definitely agree on the points you're talking about. From that perspective I think the role revamp missed. I think what's interesting is more like they said like oh the mana regen as a stat was good and I feel like I get that where they're coming from which is like mana regen feels intuitive to them versus like the random manas that you can get especially with tears by just putting tear items. Um and then they're talking about also like the understanding of it, right? I think they said specifically that they wanted the roles cuz I remember as I was reading this I said oh you know what? I kind of feel like this was a very I actually used the word invisible and hidden change and they said that that was a good thing cuz they wanted it to be invisible and intuitive and they felt like that roles revamp was actually something that their platinum plus players were pretty aware of. I thought this was funny cuz I was like oh man they just flamed their gold players and below. But uh you know they apparently they feel like a success cuz the players understood it and they got a lot of their accomplishments from it but um I guess my final thought on this overall. But but the thing is there's a lot of problems I haven't fixed with this. So, like like I I feel like it's a little off putting to like just say it's a success and not mention any of the problems that they still haven't fixed. So Yeah, that's fair. That's totally fair. By the way, is this even true? The tank aggro they said that like tank wins 50/50 choosing your next target and I still feel like every now and then I kind of wonder like how did that target even work out? Oh oh sometimes sometimes it's just bugged. It's just bugged. Okay, so so I'm not going crazy, right? I feel like I'm like I don't want to be conspiracy theorist cuz I feel like there's a lot of misinformation out there but sometimes it still like doesn't work, right? Yeah, there there's one like very notable [clears throat] trigger that I that I know of. If you have Neeko Fury with pack tactics it it ignores the tank targeting and it it can target Neeko Fury. I've also had Darius like with rocket grab it targeted but only on the left side and only like 50% of the left side. I was actually like testing this a lot. Like like half the time rocket grab Darius' top left it'll get hit by bottom left. Uh but it doesn't happen on the right side. Um even if you have a tank next to it. So, it's just bugged. Um yeah. Okay, so it doesn't cover every instances but Yeah, I fully expect this bug like bugs like that to not be fixed for multiple sets but hopefully they do. Hopefully they do and hopefully it's on their radar cuz I wasn't I I did hear about the Fury thing. I was not aware about the Darius thing and I'm pretty sure that Oh there's like more I don't even know about there's probably more. I wonder how much of it is also the fruits power up dynamic which actually goes into our next factor fraud. Actually that's I mean that's our third one but we'll go to our next one. Factor Fraud number two, power fruits should never return to TFT again. Uh they Riot was talking about how power fruits have been received and I think the TLDR they said was >> [clears throat] >> on release the set mechanic was praised for dynamic and fun nature making a champion feel like an anime protagonist but as the set evolved the system's complexity and high knowledge burden and inconsistent options revealed the need for clear tuning more instant agent flexibility and they said that fruits won't be returning. Uh so, what do you think Disob? Is that is that an agree or disagree from you? I mean I don't like the implement the the way they introduced fruits this set was good. Like obviously there's a ton of problems. I don't think it's like a hopeless mechanic like giving a unit like a because it's literally anomaly like and I I personally think anomaly was fine. I know some people don't think that but I think anomaly was fine. Um but anomaly was a lot [snorts] better than this for a variety of reasons. Yeah, I don't know. I like I I guess I disagree with it it like could never come back but I don't think it's good like the way they did it. I generally feel like the second time Riot revisits a mechanic they tend to improve it significantly. Uh the exception is I think chosen and headliners but I think when they have like tried to do other forms of different things like like galaxies and portals I think they did that a lot better the second time around. Um I think when they try to do better iterations of hero augments I think hero augments have been far improved and obviously we've had patches where hero augments were too good but like for the most part they actually do a lot of what they accomplished and my general take was like this set ended up becoming a hero augment set because power fruits were for specific champions and specific interactions that were like abusable and then they just didn't work you lost the game and if you missed it you also lost the game. So, um I think that there's definitely a version of fruits that could exist. I also partially think that Riot a little bit overcooked because of the nature of like how they tried to market this with 2XKO. You know I had I had this like epiphany that was like oh they have they give you two fruits instead of one because it was supposed to be like this whole 2XKO fighting game like marketing thing. Like that's probably why they gave you two fruits instead of one cuz someone said like how come they didn't just give you one fruit instead of two? And I'm like oh you know what? Like we we made this whole connection. >> they would they would have to like I've never actually seen that marketing like I know there's like 2XKO base fruits they had a while ago but >> No no but I like but but if you think about it logically, right? >> I understand the logic it's just like I've never seen like any like Riot mention of that so feels like I mean I don't know maybe Well, I know for a fact that 2XKO was delayed in the dev process. It was it was supposed to release a lot earlier and I'm pretty sure the timeline was supposed to sync up. If you just think about the fighting game theme of it. That's just a theory. I have no confirmation. I didn't talk to Riot about it so. My my point that I'm trying to get at is this like I said there's probably I agree with you. I think there's something there for power up fruits. I just don't think I think this was a pretty big miss from the player experience at a competitive level cuz that's what we're focused on. There's actually a lot of people out there that were writing reviews on set 3.5 that felt like overall was a really fun mechanic to explore and everything like that but for people that want to feel like cuz what we care about for the podcast and competitive players is agency amidst the chaos, right? We we know TFT is a is a chaotic high variance game but we want to try to have as many things under control and so do it but it just felt completely unwieldy this set for a lot of players. But if you're a player that just like embraced the chaos I you probably had so much fun this set and didn't really care about it so. Uh I've seen a lot of feedback like that. Yeah, I I think like the set would have been better if they just had like a golden fruit remover and they were like forced to address the broken things instead of like just waiting until like people found it. Yeah. Cuz like the the limited remover is kind of like was a balancing lever for like broken interactions, but the downside of that is that like if you just don't like you just like stuff is balanced through the broken interactions, you just don't hit it. It's just like so sad. >> Like like even today, even after like all the the odds increased like like I missed Janna like veteran Janna four times. Like okay, I guess that was my game. >> Janna veteran Janna today? Yeah, like four like I had I had to like remake it. Um Oh my god. Wait, actually I had a I had an experience like that because I was in the one in 50 games this set to play fan service for Khan. I'm telling you the stars aligned and it was perfect, absolutely perfect and I re-fruited and then I just missed fan service. Uh and then I had to do Yeah, I had to also like remake for Khan. Um and I and then yeah, it was very very sad. >> So so yeah, I I mean my take is that they should just have a golden fruit remover. Um I don't really think like I don't know like like maybe if they like balance the fruits to be at a point where like you could actually just take generic, which which I think like anomalies kind of did. I feel like they kind of got to the point where anomaly like you felt like okay taking a lot of stuff. But like with fruit, if you don't have the best option, it just feels [ __ ] So like why not just like make us have the best option every time? That's my take. >> You know what my take is? I actually this is another side topic and we're basically side barring a bunch of times since we're talking about it. My take is that this set if TFT devs were to say there's only one set that we play for a really long time, I actually do think that if this set got to a good version of it because the because the the the the set has so many uh comps, right? This is the most comps ever in a set just largely because of the way fruits exist. There's so many like random niche things. If TFT actually had time to develop beyond just like a three four month thing and then they did they they shuffle it away, they they could eventually get fruits to a spot where like there's more than one option, right? Um >> Yeah. I I think the current I think the current state of the set is like what it should be after like a month and it's like the end of the set. So Yeah, I would say that. I was like, you know, if we started here, like I feel like this set would be received way better like where we are in this patch cuz we can actually fine tune. We're actually pretty close to them. >> there's I don't know if there's close. I feel like there's still a ton of work to do, but but yeah, it's I mean like close I mean we're at the end. So I I don't know what else we can really go from here. Like what do you what do you even want for the world's patch if you were to like suggest something? Uh I don't know. Like for sure they need to like actually like buff up mech again. Like to like [laughter] No, no, no, cuz the thing is the comp is legit playable. Like they they they balanced it around two mech pilot and now like that's not good. Yeah. So like Yeah. Is that it though? Um but I don't know like probably nerf the five crystal econ more. Probably nerf rocket grab. Um I don't know. Maybe like nerf like Seraphine somehow. Like with it like it like with like the bastion scaling, it gets a little bit too much off of armor and MR. Kind of leads to stupid fights. Maybe Lee Juggernaut nerf something like that. Okay. >> Like I I don't know. I feel like the the unit balance is like Like I I feel like it's legit impossible for the unit balance to be that bad this point into the set. Like the unit balance is like pretty good right now. It's just like >> the powerful interactions of like specific things, right? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Reduce the sharpness of the the the best things. Okay. We got off track. Let's do the final factor fraud. This one is a pretty big one amongst some people who really care about it, which is prismatic traits. Prismatic traits were overall too difficult and rare and thus not that successful. How do you feel about prismatic trait reflections, factor fraud? I'm going to be honest. This is an like an area of the game I do not care about in the slightest. So like to me this is a positive cuz I'm seeing less. I hate prismatic traits. Like I think it's just like a Like like to me I I feel like I'm getting cheated out of a win if I lose to it. Like that that that's how I take it. Um you might think like I like I I I feel like overall it's probably unpopular cuz like Yeah. But um I do not like prismatic traits in the game. So I like this trait. I I know they're going to exist and they'll probably like make them more common next set, but I don't know. I That that was one aspect of the set I actually liked. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, we'll be talking about the good old days in set 15 where you had to work for your prismatic as opposed to Yeah. for free on your encounter as as well. >> Before they introduced the solution, my my suggestion for prismatic traits for a while that I've given is always like make it require level 10. Like like make it the 10 trait require however many like emblems you need or whatever, but just make it so you have to go level 10 so you don't just like scam people on like with like fodder or trainer dummy. Yeah. Kind of like what they did with the mech, right? You had to be level 10 and then activate all that stuff. >> Yeah, yeah. I I I think the problem just go away if you're level 10. I I like The thing is like it makes it it makes obviously it makes it harder to hit, but like I don't know. I I feel like it's just such a scam like how 90% of the prismatic traits were hidden in the past. You just like have plus two with fodder or plus two with with the dummy and it's like yay. All right, bonus factor fraud. Here's a here's one that I just came off the top of my head. What do you think about the take that people say that this set trainer golem's is not even that bad because prismatic traits are so hard to hit? Factor fraud on that one. Uh it's fraud mostly cuz five crystal is really really stupid in the mid game. If you get a crystal like >> Okay, fair fair fair. Crystal crystal game. How about how about if no one gets something like crystal gambit, I guess? If no one rolls crystal gambit on any of their dummies, it's a fine portal. Ah. >> It's not a good portal. It's like probably like slightly below average, but it's like I I probably wouldn't hate myself that much. But the the thing is like the like the thing is like you it's actually so easy to make a good five crystal board in the mid game like with your other two traits and then you can just snowball so hard if you get the spot for it. Like yeah. Yeah. So definitely crystal gambit too strong, but I I I find it hard to disagree with like the other cases though. Definitely interesting food for thought point for the set. All right, just so we're going to we're going to kind of long, so let's go ahead and just do the pop quiz here and we'll let you go finish your prep for regionals. So this will be uh this one was helped me prepare by Brosif, so I hope you're ready for it. It'll be fun. Oh [ __ ] Prepared by Brosif. Well, no no no. Like I prepped it, but he he kind of looked over my shoulder for it. I see. All right. Okay, question number one. We'll start off pretty simple. Who is the best holder of crown of Demacia? And this is just for reference because April size went platinum plus on this one. Okay, the thing is I think it's Mundo, but it might be Shen. Um specifically your augment. I will guess Mundo cuz I'm pretty sure that's the best one. Okay, so the answer is I thought it was Shen. Which you could accept as an answer, but apparently Kennen is even better. Bro, like I I feel like these guys might be putting in a frontline, man. Okay, maybe not. I don't know, man. I I actually feel like it's so broken, but sure. I mean yeah, I I I I guess. I mean to be fair, it could be actually Mundo, but I'm just going off of the stats. Yeah, yeah. I mean that's fair. I I got it wrong. All right. Well, either way I guess if you're in the spot to try to put this on Kennen and there's no way you can filter out like protags or anything like that, but hey, crown Demacia on Kennen. The Kennen hero By the way, just so that we're clear for everyone watching, it's the Kennen hero augment. It's definitely not regular Kennen. Question number two. What are three of Garrett and hero's best artifacts? And we'll take this I I wrote down the top five, so just write three of his best five artifacts. I think people really know like one or two of them, but Uh Like I actually don't think it's that broken, but like uh locket's for sure on the list somewhere. Locket's one of them. That's correct. Um Is Manazane good? Maybe. We'll put that in there. Mittens is for sure good. Mittens is definitely one of them. Um I think Donkore is actually pretty good. Then Okay, I'm going to guess locket, mittens, Donkore. How many how many do I need? I mean there's there you only need five, but you know what? I'll give you bonus extra credit if you can I'll give you twice as many points if you can get all five. Okay, I have mittens, locket, Donkore, uh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I'll put Manazane four and then flicker five, maybe. All right. The answer is you got three correct. Mittens, intervening Donkore, and then two other ones are rapid fire cannon, specifically with Shojin. This delta is actually uh this is the edge. You put Shojin, it goes up a lot more cuz people actually figure out. And Titanic Hydra. That one kind of came out of nowhere for me. I was uh I was surprised by that one. So uh but I mean you pretty much got full credit. I I think Flickerblade is good though, right? If you go Flickerblade on him, so Uh I mean I mean you don't actually want to go against it normally. So I could I could see it not being flicker, but I mean flicker in my head sounds a little bit better than rapid, but I guess rapid's kind of like stretch your arms. I I I could see it being good, actually. Okay. Okay. All right. Number three. Even despite its nerf, sniper's focus is not the worst artifact in the game AVP wise. Uh sorry. I will just be looking at >> Here, look at the list of artifacts. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We have to go on TFT Academy cuz the other one is AVP. I mean I don't think trench Is trench what even in the game? Uh no. They removed that from the game. We We still have them in the in the database, but yeah, I I have not seen that ever. I mean it's in the builder, but I mean I guess I I'm I mean, it's usually one of the gold No, it's usually not one of the gold gems. Wait, what the Wait, what is it? The thing is uh like Talisman is actually like not even that bad anymore. Um Hydro has like is not good, but it it has like niche spots and like it's like you know one's actually taking it, so the stats are not bad. Wait, what is it? Like I guess it's Silvermere, but like I don't even think Silvermere's that bad. Like there's some holders. Like I guess it is Silvermere though. I'm looking at these. Like I think there's there's options worse. But I mean, I know I also know Horizon doesn't have good AVP, but I don't know if it's bottom. And I But the thing is I don't even know that I think there's like at least with some fruits there's some like okay interactions. I guess Lich Bane's not good. Like if if the Kog'Maw AVP is bad, maybe Lich Bane is legit ass. Um I'm between like Lich Bane You everything it might be like it might be uh like Fishbones cuz people are like playing in Akasha. Akasha [ __ ] Wait, like I I feel like there's like no clear like actually bad one. You have to use like mental >> [laughter] >> Yeah, you you have to use mental gymnastics. I I'm going to guess it is uh I I I will get Silvermere, but I think it might be Lich Bane. Okay. Okay. All right, we're we're locking in >> wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait Okay. Uh Seeker's. But I actually don't think it's that bad on Kat, but I I will get Seeker's. >> [laughter] >> I like that you keep saying it could be this, but it's not bad on this unit. And you just basically repeated that across every artifact. Okay, we're locking in Seeker's Seeker's on ward on ward. >> Okay. The answer is the The answer is uh Hull Crusher. Uh I would have accepted a variation of No Crystal Gambit though, because the thing is artifact is influenced by No >> Oh oh yeah, I I I I think I think the Annenie is the worst one like by far. Like like like like it's actually the worst one, but like you can get it from >> if you filter out Crystal Gambit is Fishbones. You were kind of on the right idea. Fishbones is uh is also really bad. It But to be fair, in your defense if you filter it a lot of them are kind of close, right? But it just did it did it does look like Hull Crusher just like a little bit worse than everything else. But um I mean, that I'm not going to lie. I kind of forgot Hull Crusher's like bad after the mech change cuz this was like the best mech artifact. Yeah. And then you also it's like a Call to Chaos roll. So, maybe people are not happy with that. I don't even think that one's that bad though. Yeah? I mean, it's I don't think it's that bad, but I feel like you have to remember the type of player that clicks that. But I click that? No, I mean I mean like the the type of >> I I know I know I I don't even try. Yes. Yes. Yes. It gets dragged down cuz people just love clicking Call to Chaos even if they're not in a spot to click it cuz you click it if it makes sense for your comp. And then then there's people who click it when it's on their screen. I guess. >> Just two sides of players. >> [laughter] >> All right, question number four. According to TFT, there are five hexes where Rakan excels most when positioned. I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll just rip it. Watch this. D3 D5 C1 C There's seven hexes, right? Like in a row. There's seven, right? >> Yeah, there's seven there's seven columns and there's four rows. Oh yeah yeah yeah. We go A for the top row, D for the bottom row, one >> C7, D3, D5 uh A2. A2. Interesting. And this is basically where you use uh where where where your belief is. So, the worst one by far was D1. D1 is um uh D1 >> Oh, I meant to say I meant to say A2, but I said D2. It It doesn't matter. It's not one of the answers. Yeah yeah yeah. So, you got the the D5, this one correct. But the B7 is like really really high and the C7. You said C7, right? >> [snorts] >> Yeah, I did. I did. Okay. So, those are the hexes that are really really high. I think you got three instead of four. You know what? I'll give you good enough credit cuz I I didn't actually think about B1 and that's technically a winning hex as well. So, it looks like it's A7, B7, C7 and then kind of like the middle of of the D >> I I feel like I feel like this is like I I I I don't know. I I don't think you put that much stock into this. No, no, you don't, but it's just it's just one of those interesting ones. I actually I don't think I wrote I think I don't think I wrote C7, so whoops. I think I meant to write the C7 here as well. Um yeah, whatever. Okay. Nicely done, Disso. We'll just give you credit for that one. Okay, last question. Pretty much every three-star four-cost has incredible stats except for this one. What is the weakest three-star four-cost is so? I will not know this answer, by the way. Um I think I remember in the past like Poppy was down there. But I don't know. Poppy three-star is like not that bad. Okay, the thing is I've lost with Poppy three. I'll go with Poppy, for sure. All right, the answer is the worst three-star four-cost in the game is Poppy. Oh, [ __ ] >> You are correct. And look at that a 58% win rate compared to the 70 plus for everything else. 1.7 AVP. It is It is a lot worse. It's kind of interesting to think about. >> [laughter] >> Uh I think uh just I was asking Broz about it. He just says it doesn't do enough damage. It just doesn't It just just because just cuz you have a three-star Poppy doesn't mean that uh you can actually win fights a lot. So. >> [snorts] >> I mean, obviously you will win cuz it's a three-star four-cost, but there's a pretty good chance you lose. >> yeah. Yeah. [snorts] All right, let's wrap it up with uh our question of the day. And uh I got a question from Douglas Meta that said if whether or not we should be intentionally playing for a lower Crystal Gambit cashout. I think I'll show you the image here. Uh the image I have here is the Crystal Gambit cashout of 250 versus 300. Is it better The question is is it better to go for a 250 cashout on average for fast nine than 300? Uh Like kind of. But not really. Um like there's some that are like It's specifically the gold and the Nico. Like the the one that doesn't give the like item chest is like better than the one that gives you three anvils. Um but it's like not better than the other two. Uh so I mean, I don't know. Like if the the thing is like the the problem is you just roll the the items on the um on the 300 one, you just feel really really bad. But I don't know. Like like there's not really a good way to like decrease your cashout is the thing besides like just killing less units, which is just bad. So. Right. So, it's not something you can like intentionally manipulate too much but it is better. >> [laughter] >> It It is actually a little bit better cuz sometimes you can get pretty grieved on on some of this stuff. I find that like if you get Tactician's Crown 15 gold, you sometimes just can't actually hit your board. So. Yeah, I guess that's true as well. Yeah. Um so, that was our question of the day. Uh and that will probably do it cuz I think we're at time. We're an hour long. We got to let Disso go through and get to regionals. So, uh man, it'll be another regional finals for you, man. Uh and we all wish you good luck. Make us all proud. And even if not, uh we know you'll be back because you made it to back to tier one next set where you'll be fired up cuz set 16's going to be best set ever, right? >> Yeah yeah. Kind of kind of old mindset, but like low-key I already kind of reached my goal this set, kind of. Like You reached your baseline goal, which is to get back to Yeah yeah yeah. Baseline goal is to not get embarrassed and get regulated, but >> [laughter] >> um Yeah, I don't know. Like it's just kind of hard to get motivated when the when the set is is [ __ ] trash. I I I've been I've been grinding like since like uh like the past two weeks though. So, hopefully I do well. You'll get back into form, don't you worry. So. I mean, I think I'm in form, which is like I mean, obviously I wasn't in form like for most of the set. Fair enough. Fair enough. Fair enough. Uh well, you actually still are pretty reasonably competitive almost making final lobby if you weren't even in form. So, if you are in form, I think the field will be shaking in their boots. Absolutely. So, that'll be it. And I think I mean, regardless of what happens uh let's try to see if we can aim for one more episode to do the final one for the set cuz it'll be the world's patch. Uh and then that'll be it. We'll do fifth set 15 in the books. So, uh with that being said, thanks everyone who's tuned in and checked out and stuck with TFT as well. I mean, you know, we're talking about things from the competitive perspective, but hopefully you guys gained some insights and also uh continue to develop your love for the game as well. Um so, with that, from Frodan and Disso, thanks for checking out TFT Say Hello. See you guys next time for more TFT action. Have a good night.