Hey everyone, this is Frodan here. One video series I've always wanted to do for a long time in TFT is how to actually develop fundamental skills in TFT that's not necessarily dependent on a specific patch or even a specific set. And I think that there's a lot of video content out there on YouTube and wherever else on the internet that teach you, well, just play this comp and you will climb to the rank that you want. Then a new patch comes in and then it resets all your knowledge and you're not exactly sure what is the next comp that you're going to play in order to climb. And thankfully there are some websites like TFT Academy that help you get there. But ultimately I want to create a video and a video series that can live on beyond just this set. And so this is going to be a series that I'm going to do on stream as well as something that lives on YouTube called uh the TFT fundamental series. And we're going to start off by doing the very beginning stuff, which is the core skills to climb in TFT on any patch. On any patch, if you're a person that's, you know, trying to get to masters for the very first time or maybe you haven't played in a while, this is supposed to help you. Or if you're already a Masters players, this also might be helpful to review some of the core fundamentals. If you are in chat right now and you're watching, you probably know a lot of these concepts, so it might be like something that is good to refresh on or hopefully maybe you can learn a thing or two. All right. So, the first thing that we want to ask is why should we even bother learning the fundamentals? And the the real core important thing about learning the fundamentals is that you learn the systems around TFT and you're not going to learn a patch. A lot of people are just going to learn, well, I slam these items and I roll for these units or I play for these items and augments because they're OP. But Riot will change those things because that's what keeps TFT fresh. And there's a lot of different ways that you can learn TFT. And I'm not going to I'm not going to tell you like a system kind of like you know this guy on screen who's creates like these learning systems. I'm just trying to teach you different concepts to keep in mind so that way you can keep them from patch to patch. But before we start, I want to actually emphasize that this is not going to teach you the very basics of TFT. So if you're watching this and you don't know how to build items, you don't know what augments are, you don't know the concept of r-rolling versus leveling up, um or you don't even understand like what the different kinds of damage types, you're overwhelmed by carousel, this is not going to be for teaching you the tutorials of the game. And this is to help you teach you the basics of what to do after you've learned the the actual necessities to play the game. So, I just want to make that clear. If it is, try to watch a different video first. Maybe I'll make something on that. But, uh, there's plenty of videos out there to help you understand all those little resources. So, what are even the four core skills to master? Well, there's four that I've boiled down that if you master these four, no matter what happens on any patch, you can climb. The first is gold management. The second is items and how you build them and manage your items as well. The third is augment selection. And the fourth is your meta read slash your line selection. But that's going to be the piece that puts it all together and it's going to go last. Okay. So the first core pillar that we want to go over is economy and gold management. And there's three core principles that I want to also tunnel in on. The first is that gold means power in TFT. And that is going to dictate a lot of your positions of like what you can and can't do. So we're going to drive home that. The second is that almost across the board, even all the way to challenger, you probably aren't making enough gold. No matter what you do, uh or or no matter what happens in that game, you probably are not making enough gold. Uh the third is that we need to find extra resources in the game in order to get an edge because if you just follow these simple principles, you're pretty much going to have no edge against any other player. So, those are the three that we're going to go over for this video. The first, gold means power. In TFT, your gold count tends to be the number one factor that determines the strength of your position. And this is because the more gold you have, the more things you can do. The more things you can do means that RNG can't get you. Uh you're going to be more resistant to variance, the more gold that you make. And then the opposite side of that is the poorer you are, the more you have to high roll to bail yourself out. And this is why consistently if you look at the top players, they're always valuing gold as their number one resource lever that they pull. Because if you have no gold, you can't level, you can't roll, you can't transition anything. Uh gold is the main first lever that you pull to fight against the game's variants. Every resource in TFT can also be translated to gold value, whether you're rolling in upgrades or leveling. Um also items can also be translated to gold. HP is also worth gold as well. That's something that people don't really understand at the very beginning, but if you wait a couple rounds knowing that you'll lose, you can trade that health for gold so you can get some income. Uh, and the big question to take away across all of this is what are you doing to earn more money than your opponents? Because in TFT, if you're trying to beat the seven other players in the lobby, all of them understand the same thing, which is to get more gold. But the big question that I want to ask you as a fundamental principle is what are you trying to do to out earn your opponents because you're going to need that in order to get all these different things to go like rolling and leveling. Part number two, the number one reason why you don't hit. If you think that you're low rolling, it's chances are is because you just didn't have enough gold. The number one reason why people are struggling to actually get their comp online and when you hit really matters because if you hit at the beginning of the stage for roll down for level eight completely different game than if you miss and then you eventually get to your board. If you hit it's about when you hit and it's because of the gold count. The hard stuck mentality for a lot of the players that wrote down here is eh it's just one gold. But the climbing mentality is oh my god I just lost a gold I can't believe I lost a gold. That's going to be such a big difference. If you watch top challenger players, it's going to be very common where you see people make fun of the streamers for making one for losing one gold. Uh and then a lot of the streamers will start freaking out because they feel like that one gold has lost them the interest break point that they can make every other thing. So, uh the important lesson to take away from all this is try to squeeze out an extra gold whenever you can. And if you think about it drawn out across the course of a TFT game, let's say you're playing for like a top four or fifth, you're probably going to play something like 25 rounds uh of a game in TFT. And that counts the PVE rounds as well. And so assuming you're getting around 26 rounds per stage, you're dead somewhere in stage five, that could be something up to 25 gold. If you just on average save one gold per round, if you could find a way to squeeze it out, that's worth more than a gold augment like gain 21 gold. And if you're up an entire gold augment over someone else, I don't think I have to explain it beyond that. That's a big advantage over the other people. So trying to find a way to squeeze out every extra gold you possibly can really adds up over time, especially when you compound it over things like compound interest. I want to drive home the point of making more gold interest as well. Uh with this graph that Mog posted one time, which is across every rank, if you look at it at the beginning of the game, everyone has generally like the same amount of gold. But as you climb the ranks, no matter where you are at, challenger, grand masters, masters, diamond, emerald, all the way below in general, the reason why you're not actually climbing is because you're not finding as many ways to generate gold. And that gold compound interest stacks a lot. And this is to help people who don't understand that, but uh if you are delaying the the first time you ever make gold, which accelerates your econ, by the end of stage two, you're already down something like seven gold depending on how fast you make it. And that's because your 10 makes your 20, your 20 makes your 30. So if you if you aren't putting on a win streak together and you're delaying gold because for whatever reason you're holding units, you're making upgrades, or you're just like leveling and rolling for no reason, then you're going to lose that gold interest. And so a lot of times whenever people come and ask like, "Hey, I'm stuck in this. Do you have any tips?" One of the things I say the most often is, you're just not making enough gold. You just have to find a way to generate gold. And we're going to talk about that like right here. So what are the ways that you do make gold? And I think some of them are pretty obvious. You have the income that you get through PvE rounds and you have the gold interest. But one thing that I think people needs to be driven home is that winning rounds get you more gold. And that is why challenger players make gold is the reason why they make more gold because if you go back to the previous slide, they're making more gold because they're winning more rounds. And they're winning more rounds. They have more HP. They have they live longer. So they have more gold income. So on so forth. But that's going to be really important for understanding how to build boards and try to win rounds. Uh streaks and maintaining streaks is also really important. It might feel like it's not that big of a deal to lose. There's people who would rather make 20 gold than level and win that round and get that gold for winning that round and start their streak. And that is also another in way that you can squeeze out gold over time by starting a streak even though you don't have one going on. Uh the carousel unit value, this is something that I think a lot of people kind of intuitively understand, but if you take a four cost off of a carousel, that's also worth a lot more than a one cost. And you can use that to sell and make more interest gold as well or even play that to help win rounds. That goes back to it as well. Sometimes you can take a unit off carousel. Augments are a way you can get gold. Econ trades are a way you can get gold. In this set that we're playing is something called billagege water. That might not be true in the future, but there's a lot of different uh econ traits that you can use to get one extra gold or interest. And then the encounter, which is scuttle puddle, gold subscription, things of that sort. Uh, and here is the the conclusion of it. And I realize I'm I'm covering part of it, so I'm going to take off my screen for a second. The more of these things that you can activate, right? I think a lot of you guys know what these things are, right? Because you've played TFT, you understand, but maybe something that you haven't put together is that the more you can check off of these that you're doing, the more your AP will go up. It's a positive correlation. Are you getting income? Yes. Uh are you getting gold interest? Yes. Are you winning rounds? Maybe. Are you getting your streaks? Maybe. If you're combining all of these things together, that's it will have a positive impact on your AP on the patch. You have to make more money. Here are some bronze rules. I think it's probably important to talk, and this is probably where I asked chat to give suggestions as well. It's really important not to kill your econ. Uh killing the econ in general is usually rolling the zero. And if you roll the zero, it'll take two rounds because your passive income is like, you know, five. Uh, so it it's going to take two rounds for you to build up your first interest gold again. So things that kill your econ, the number one thing that kills your econ spot is being contested. You have to avoid this almost at all costs, especially if you're playing something where there's a limited number size of it. That's really impactful like or some four costs. Uh, someone did the math one time. I don't have a source for this, but they said it's negative 25 gold per copy of a contested forecast. mean that if you are playing a contested for cost and there are people contesting you in a two or three-way situation, you're going to have to spend something like 20 to 25 gold on average to find one copy of it. Someone actually did the actual math. I looked for it for like an hour. I couldn't find it for some reason. But if you are playing contested, you naturally are going to be in a much more difficult econ spot and you have to compensate through other ways, right? There's augments that help you get to two stars. There's also augments that give you duplicators or there's augments or you just have to play around different unit and just be okay with that. The second thing is that lose streak prematurely like midstreak. This is where you like win lose win lose or you are on a four- win streak and you lose it right before the PV rounds because at the end of the stage you also get some income as well in your streak. So that can also kill your econ because that'll take a couple rounds to build back that streak gold against. Instead of getting three gold per round, you're getting zero to one. And that adds up over time because that helps you hit your future intervals. Leveling too early or quote off interval. Uh in TFT, you get two exp naturally every single round that passes regardless of player versus uh creep combat. And if sometimes you level off interval, you're going to level early. Like a really common one is stage four. People level at 41 to level eight. That's actually not just minus two gold because you're two exp over the interval. you're actually losing the econ that you would get as well. So, sometimes you level too early. Uh sometimes you're holding too many units that are expensive because you think you need them. The most common trap at a lower level is you're holding things like three costs. Like you're let's say you're trying to play around bruisers. You decide to hold a Dr. Mundo. This set that Mundo is a three cost currently in set 16. uh instead of playing around a one cost bruiser that can functionally do the same thing which is activate your bruiser trait and provide front line that can be a big bait because it's costing you your ability to make your interest gold and then that might cost you the future rounds of making interest that we talked about or even just holding a full bench for no reason. So one tip that I usually give in these situations is try to play a cheaper version of the same thing in the early game. This is just an early game suggestion by the I should probably write that uh that can basically accomplish the same thing. That's a little bit worse. Like let's say in this set right now it's a Illaoi one versus a Mundo one. Uh Illaoi one is 85% of the way to a Mundo, but uh you're still going to be able to make that interest breakpoint and you're not compromising that much on board strength compared to just you know playing another unit that's not a bruiser. Uh upgrading unit doesn't give us wins and not crucial. This is actually one of the biggest that I think of low elo. I see a lot of people make two star two cost and two star three cost. They have something like a like a Jinx pair and they say, "Oh my god, all I need is one more Jinx." Jinx is a three cost backline of this stuff. Um, and they say, "Oh, if I if I just like hold this Jinx pair and then I lose and I get Jinx off Carousel, I have a Jinx, too." A two star three cost should be really strong in the early game. But here's the the the caveat to it. That could be strong. But if it doesn't get us the win streak and it kind of puts us in this win- lose win lose where we're winning one gold every other round, no other income source, not only are we not racking up the gold, we're also gold sunk into this Jinx, too. And then the cat the the the extra cherry on top is making a two star Jinx. You only get eight gold back for selling it. So you actually lost a gold there as well. So you're minus gold in different categories and that just adds up over time. Uh the last I roll is tilt rolling. Till rolling is when you overroll past the break points that you should be. There's a lot of rules around there of like when you should be rolling and how much. And there's resources out there, but we've all done it. I did it yesterday when I was rolling for um a two when I was rolling for a four cost that I needed to unlock an Aurelian soul, which is a seven cost this set. It happens to the best players. Um everyone toot rolls. Try not to toot roll. Okay, so I saw long enough. I'm asking chat for some of their suggestions on other things that kill their econ. Everyone's just talking about toot rolling. Is there any other things that kill econ that I haven't included? Three staring stuff you don't need. That's a good one. That's a good one. Another thing that can kill your econ is this sort of like holding a full bench or playing units that don't get us wins. But one thing for lower ranked players when they're first making the climb is when they collect a lot of copies of one cost units. You have a copy of a one cost unit, you have items on it, and then all of a sudden another shop of two star of that one cost that you found is right there. So now you have six and you're thinking, "Oh my gosh, I can actually just go for a three star very easily." That often times is is bait because that unit is costing you gold on your bench. You're not playing it. It's on your bench, so you're not getting board power from it. And then not only that, it's costing you gold interest and then you have to roll to find it, which could take you a lot of econ as well. And by the way, three star one cards are the things that fall off some of the quickest in the game because they're the lowest tier units. So they tend to get outscaled by two star four cost. So you have this very small window to make it work. So that's another trap that people find themselves in all the time. I can't decide on a comp. That's another thing too. Another thing that can kill your econ is you can't decide what comp that you're playing. I mean it kind of goes back to holding a full bench. Holding unit expenses because we think we need them. So that's kind of under that as well. Taking one cost off the carousel just for the item also kills econ. Yep. That's pretty similar. That's like an inversion of the carousel that I set. Like I think I wrote the inverse of that is that you would take the carousel one cost because you think you need the bow for example when you could have taken something else and you kill your econ. Here's some milestones. I'm not going to spend too much time on this. You can pause for this part of the video, but the general milestones that you want to check with this as of January 2026 is you want to be if you're win streaking, you generally at the latest want to make your first interest gold at 2 three because you're going to want to basically try to get to five gold, five to six gold per round. That's the general rule of what we're trying to aim for, accelerate that econ. So, by the end of stage five, we're win streaking. The 20 gold gets us two interest plus the streak would get us four. Uh, and then hopefully if we can win one more after that, we can get to five to six. Uh, at level six, if you're win streaking, you want to be around 30 gold. And when you're level seven, uh, at stage 35, you want to be 30 gold because that full streak will get you around five to six net income per round. And then if you're lose streaking, you want to make it a lot earlier, around 21 at the latest. And then by the end of stage two, you should have something around 30 to 40 gold at level five. Um, and then 32, you should be rolling here for two costs and you should be at 50 gold. Otherwise, something went wrong with your econ and your setup. Uh, and if you're trying to roll for a three cost of some kind, you roll at level seven with 50 gold at 35. And remember, these are just general rules. I don't want to spend too much time on this because these are there's so many exceptions. Depends on like what type of composition you're playing, what kind of units that are really important. Um, and it's going to change that to set. So, these are just general checkpoints if you've never seen them before. finding extra resources. Now, this is where the real edge is to be made. If you're a diamond and masters player and you're like, I know all this already, I think this is something that maybe hasn't clicked for a lot of players yet, but econ is all relative. It's okay to be poor when everyone else in the lobby is poor because you're all in the same boat. Your gold goes the same amount of distance as everybody else. But it's not okay to be poor when everyone else is rich. And that's an that that is something that will often create the biggest domino snowballing effect where everyone gets more resource than you and you are not. And then and this used to be more pronounced in TFT back when the creep rounds. Sometimes you would get like an item and other people would get a bunch of gold and you would be way more poor. So you have to win streak. That's not necessarily the case right now. They normalize a lot of it. But it's still possible that this scenario ends up happening. The opposite of this is also true. It's very good to be rich when everyone else is poor. But come on, man. Everyone knows that that that's just a life lesson about everything, not just DFT. Uh, other things about encounters with econ stuff like scuttle, ghost subscription, um, is that they interact with econ augments differently. First of all, if you're on scotto puddle and ghost subscription, you don't necessarily need as many econ augments, but at the same time, there's also things to look at deeper, which is synergy with your augments. So, for example, with level up and it's cheaper leveling, your exp goes a longer distance. So if you have 10 gold on stage one instead of 21, level up becomes a much higher value because you can use that gold to get level quicker and not miss your break points. You actually get to get benefit of both worlds. There's also things like max interest cap like hedge fund uh exp surging and then gold sync deficits as well. Uh things like gomify is a lot better on higher econ portals because goldmi actually doesn't get doesn't sell your units. just takes your units off the board and then gives you power for it, but it's not as big of a deal on things like scuttle ball and gold subscription because you're going to get so much of that back. And so now you're just way more powerful than the average board by picking an augment like this. So when you're the TLDDR is that if you're on econ think about positive synergy with other augments that you can get otherwise by finding these extra resources. Basically, what I'm trying to say is that level up in some ways and cluttered mind in other ways and some of these other eco augments, you can get more than what's written on the augment if you find different ways to have positive synergy. The point that I want to drive home is that the winning player finds ways to get extra gold items and exp through a multitude of ways. You're not just settling for I'm making gold, I'm making interest. A lot of players, they stop at saying I'm making 50 gold or I'm on a win streak and I'm playing an econ augment. That's like that's the extent of which they're thinking about. You need to be layering as much as you can. For this set, in set 16, it's actually quite common to see people play multiple resource generations on the exact same board. At the very beginning of the set, there was a a unit called bard that would give you free rerolls if you lost or a free unit if you won. And people would roll for it while playing other econ and an Ishtal was like the resource loose streak cash out or maybe an Ionia which generates golden exp. Uh, and then they do that while taking other econ augments as well. So, they have all this econ and get extra resources and that's how they hit their boards. And the top players, the the the good players will always find a way to squeeze that out without compromising too much on board strength. This is a video. Sorry about the quality. It's on Twitter, but this is a video showing how a top player YBY actually found a quest in Ishtal. If you have 30 or less HP, you get 400 sunshards, which is very a lot of resource to get. And he just plays a normal game of TFT. And he just finds a way to cheat out a ton of resources and just be rewarded for playing a standard game of TFT. And from doing this, he gets like a 400 cash out and he's able to get like an extra, you know, set of two star four costs with some extra items. And that is why he's able to make this big comeback. And it's hidden because you don't see this on comp lists. You don't see this really on guides. Um, you only can see this by watching people play. But the the takeaway is always to find ways to get that extra resource of some kind. You have basically you get to cheat. You can't just play honestly. If you play an honest game of TFT, you're pretty much just playing at an even playing field everyone else. And that's when the game becomes RNG. Okay, so in summary, here are the three things to take away. I yapped a lots. I think I I think I went longer than I wanted on this video, but hopefully these three things are the takeaways you can you can have for this video. The first is what are you doing to earn more than your opponents? If you're doing the exact same thing as them, then it's just a dice roll most of the time because you have equal odds. Number two, how much gold did you gain or lose from crucial decisions? This is one of the most important ways you can improve when it comes to econ management. If you can find a way to quantify this while going over your game, like, okay, well, I leveled at this instance and I lost econ and then I lost a fight. That's minus two gold right there. And that two gold is what I needed cuz I was at eight gold the following turn I couldn't make 10. That's three gold right there. And then I congratulations, you figured out econ. And you start to talk like TFT streamers and you have the accent. And then the last is did I undergrade or overgreed? That's always a question you should be asking yourself. Could I have pushed it more? And if so, what would have happened? Did I undergreed because I was too conservative and felt like I needed to actually be more aggressive? Things like that. So hopefully these will help you start to get to the path of improvement when it comes to gold management. And that's it. I didn't want to go too long. I think I actually went like 20 minutes or something like that, maybe even longer. But that is our first lesson on TFD fundamentals with econ. The next video I'm going to do I'm going to hide my cam here. The next time we're going to do this, we're going to try to cover items and cover all the the fundamentals on items. So that way whether you are a person just starting off your intermediate journey in TFT or you're a person just trying to revisit the fundamentals once more because you are away from the game for a while or you want to show somebody that this can be pretty useful. So thanks for watching this video and I'll catch you guys next time. Peace.