All right, everybody. Welcome to my third talk on the core pillar skills for TFT fundamentals. It's long form discussion on how to climb in TFT on any patch, regardless of what set it is, regardless of what kind of meta it is. And today our topic is going to be number three, augments. If you're watching this video, hopefully you should be already acquainted with the first two, which I did, which was econ and items, because we're going to build on those concepts we talked about. We're also going to work with a bunch of assumed knowledge off the basics. You should know how items work. You should know how econ works. Uh hopefully you know how shops work, how to manage gold, understanding damage types that we talked about last time, etc., etc. So, if you need all that stuff for tutorial, this is not the video or guide for you. We're going to go into more intermediate and advanced concepts for you guys to learn TFT. Uh today is going to be augments. It's a lot of slides. I know that I released my previous one weeks ago. So, if you're watching this in real time, like, why is it took so long? It's because this is like a 4550 slide presentation. Um, and it's going to be one of the the main topics to talk about because, uh, augments are really important. I think a lot of people make mistakes when they're talking about augments. Um, and if you do a good job with managing your gold and your items, but you mess with your augments, it could throw your game on the spot. The last topic we're going to cover is meta read. going to be our final one uh for this series. Our topics for today uh is going to be the three types of augments that you're going to be mainly picking and why direction is important. Topic number two is how to evaluate and correctly pick the the correct augment that you need for that situation. And the last major topic for the fundamentals is augment synergy. Uh understanding how augments work off each other very similar to items. So, let's start off with the three inarguable truths about augments. Things that every person when you're talking about augments, you just you just need to start off with these fundamentals. Uh, the first thing to understand is that augments are the most permanent choice that you can make in the game. You can't really like at least in current form of TFT, you can't like reforge your augments. You can't just be like, well, I'm going to redo that. Once you make it, you are locked in. So, and and that's really important because a lot of other things in the game you can try to they're they're more malleable. Like if you can reforge your items, you can always sell your units and roll for different board if you have enough gold. But augment you can't really do that. Uh the second thing is that the first augment you pick is the most important augment choice you can make because early econ going back to the first video we did. Same thing with win streaks. Early win streaks and snowball. Early direction helps you align decision- making. If you know what you're playing towards, the second augment you pick can reinforce the first augment. The third augment you pick can reinforce the first two, so on so forth. So, the first augment you pick is very important. Make sure you're aligning that. Uh, and third, sacrificing augment is generally a very bad idea. This is going to be a question that some people have, you know, and at the very end of this video, we can do some Q&A with chat if you guys want. Um, but sacrificing augment, don't do it. uh is because it becomes really important for how you evaluate whether or not you're making the correct augment decision. And a lot of times sacking it is just generally not worth unless you are in a very very very desperate spot which is a rare situation where you're playing for placements for like not a for example or if an augment is so OP that you have to pick it but that's in rare super imbalanced situations. Um this becomes pronounced with each progressing tier. So, just for right now, as of TFT right now, at the moment, the average silver is worth somewhere between 10 to 15 gold. The average gold is worth 12 to 20 to 30. It's like a range depending on when you're picking it. The average prismatic is 30 to 45 gold, and it continues to scale. So, sacrificing a silver is not nearly as big of a deal if you absolutely have to compared to sacking a prismatic, but generally speaking, don't sack any augments. All right, so let's talk about seeking direction. Um because your first augment is the most important augment in the game. You generally want the most direction, right? Some people actually put direction as their own augment tier. I was watching Dpay's fundamental videos. That's also on YouTube. You should check that out if you have a chance. He actually values direction so highly that it's its own category. I personally don't do that. But it's because it's putting emphasis that direction augments are really, really valuable. The clearer your direction is, the more you can build synergies with it. That's pretty straightforward. Uh, and that's because the inverse of having no direction is being open, right? Being wide. But the more open and directionless you are, the more you're vulnerable to making mistakes or even just having fewer resources. You have to hold more units on your bench because you're not sure if you're going to be playing around A versus B versus C. Uh, you might not slam items because you're just like, I'm not sure if I slam this physical damage item versus a magic damage item. That's very committal. But then because you're not slamming items, you're not killing units. you're losing HP or you're not even winning rounds which leads to weaker econ right so that is why direction is super powerful because you're able to actually it actually directly converts to more resources a lot of times and then there's also one last benefit of having strong direction which is players who if you're in a elo where players scout sometimes players don't scout at your elo but uh players who scout you will also see what you're doing and assuming that they understand what your augment does which should happen in a lot of cases as you climb you're le you're less likely to be contested. So the more obvious direction it even can be beneficial for that. Before we move on to the final part of direction, I do want to define a couple things. So let's define the three types of augments. The first is the econ augment. And this is going to be pretty straightforward. We we don't have to spend much time. Uh but the first is that the econ augment, what is the purpose of the econ augment? It's just to hit your board faster. That's all econ is really trying to do. Econ doesn't do anything except accelerate you to get to your end game as quickly as possible. But the trade-off is if other people also hit their board, if they have more items in combat than you do, then you have no advantage. Your advantage is the timing of which you hit. That's what econ augments are for. Uh augment type number two is items. And the whole point of it is to maximize a unit's potential strength as quickly as possible with the with at least at this time of the way TFD is three items. Maybe in the future they'll have four items or maybe some other crazy thing. Uh but the whole point is just to maximize the unit's potential. Uh but the thing about items is that they have diminishing returns. Uh you're not actually getting value a lot. Your first item is the most valuable item that you can get to amplify. And then after you finish three items on a carry and three items on your tank, items have diminishing value because it's less of a percentage gain in strength relative to where you're gaining for your first few items. So the first, and this goes back to our item fundamentals video from the previous, the first fully itemized taken care is the most important. So you don't want too many items because at certain point you just have like items on units that don't matter. Uh third is combat, which is to scale up a unit or a specific unit or your whole team. Um but the trade-off is obviously you have fewer resources to get your endgame board state with econ items. So oftent times combat comes last, which we'll talk about ordering um later on this video. So now that we've defined it, let's go ahead and wrap up direction. There's different kinds of direction that we want to define. There's econ direction. So econ direction gives you things like reroll versus pushing levels. Tempoing, which is leveling, versus greeting, which is oftentimes focused on like interest threshold and some examples. I want to give out some examples here and hopefully that they're relevant to the set, but I I I think I picked pretty easy ones, which is hedge fund and hustler. Hedge fund is like one extreme. You want maximum interest to get as much gold as possible and theoretically greed to push high levels. Uh or you can use it to roll depending on what you want to do. Hustler is the exact opposite of that. You gain no interest and as a result there's no reason for you to save your gold. So either you roll or you uh push levels and augments like hustler tend to give you strong direction to know exactly how you should be playing stage two. Right? These are just simple examples. Uh there's also item direction through components, artifacts, and special items. Uh really common one is portable forge. You choose an artifact, you get a special item. Artifacts are only good on a specific subset of champions that set. Same thing with special items. An example of special item right now is something called crown of Damasia, but that might not be relevant for a future set if you're playing in it. There's some augments that say like gain this special item that does something very, very unique. The other kind of augment direction you can get is combat direction. And a lot of people don't actually take this very often because they because econ and items are really easy to identify, but a combat direction is very powerful if you understand it. An easy one right now that people gravitate towards is no scout, no pivot. You're going to be really strong the longer the game goes on, but the tradeoff is pretty severe. You can't actually bench anything that you fielded during player combat. And so, uh, combat direction tends to lead itself towards very specific types of comps as well. And the trade-off is you're going to be strong, a lot stronger than the average composition, but usually at the cost of a lot of HP or other resources. Uh, and the last type of direction is trait direction. Uh, emblems are bit like good for this. Uh, very easy. Just get, okay, I'm going to be playing into some kind of frontline trait or some kind of crazy assassin trait. um trade activation specific stuff like you know play this trade to get some kind of damage. A really easy trade direction example. So now we know what kind of direction it is. All of them are varying strengths. And also by the way the reason why I'm going over this is because sometimes they're going to be some of these are going to be OP and some of these are going to be not. But it's generally important to know what kind of direction you're getting. Uh but then the question becomes what if I can't find stronger direction? Okay, I hear what you're saying. Stage two direction is really important. What if I can't find it though? Uh, if you miss on your first augments, I mean, the the the simple answer is look for committ direction on your second augment. If you're like, well, I'm not sure if I'm supposed to roll or I'm supposed to push levels or I'm supposed to like play physical versus magic damage or all that kind of stuff. Try to look for your second augment the latest because you can't really wait too long cuz the third augment is usually when the end game is being solidified and you're going to be pushing the boundaries of what you can get away with. If you still don't have uh augment, if you're like, I still don't have direction. If you still do not have direction by your second augment, that's a game you need to watch back because that probably means that you missed an opportunity. Uh so when people are like, I I I somehow went augment one, augment two, still no direction, still don't know what I'm playing. I'm like lost. That just means that you don't have a good beat on the patch. And that is one of the games you should either be watching back and VOD reviewing either using something like the TF Academy replay app or asking someone else who's a better player to review. Maybe ask a streamer, maybe ask um one of your higher low friends or so on so forth. Um and then use augment number three to show up whatever weakness is missing. That's going to be a theme that we uh go over a lot as we progress through. All right. All right, so the TLDDR about augment number one. Use a combination of your opening items, units, and encounter and bonuses to pick the augment that best pushes you to a comp. That's all what direction means. And this ties in ultimately to our last major pillar, which we're going to cover in a future video called line selection. And we're going to go over all that. Uh we're going to basically put econ items and augments all together and understand how that fits into line selection, which is probably one of the most important skills period in DFD. Okay, so that's our first major topic for today. The second major topic is how do we go about picking the correct augment? I understand everything about augments. How do we pick the right augment? And I think this has been answered in a multitude of ways, but the the best summary I can give is the correct augment addresses the greatest area of need that you need right now or within the stage. the correct augment helps you right now slashwith within the stage of your greatest area of need. So uh with it there's usually an augment checklist that everyone goes through which is do you have an econ engine to hit your composition because the reality is timing is almost everything right it doesn't matter if you are hitting your composition if you are basically at one life you are very susceptible to losing. Um so an econ engine is often part of the checklist at the very beginning of the game which is why a lot of people pick econ augments to start off. Um, the second checklist is, do you have your items done or are you on track to get your items done? It could be one of the situations where you have items, but you don't have items for your comp, right? You could be trying to play like a magic carry, a magic caster carry, and you need a lot of mana and and and magic damage aification. You need a rod of rods and tears, but all you have are swords and gloves, and you're like, I can't use that right now. You know, that's a situation where you'd be thinking about taking an item augment in order to get towards your composition. Um, if you do have all of this, how much do we have of other areas of need like utility? Do we have shred and sunder and anti-heal? And that there could be other forms of utility as well that really amplifies your composition like teamwide stuns or shields and things like that. And if you have yes to all of that, then take a combat augment. That is generally the structure of which you want to take the combat augment of the greatest area of need right now. And this is usually applying to the first two augments usually by augment three. Hopefully the answer of all this checklist is yes. So you do pick a combat augment on on the third augment. But if you don't have any of that then you might be forced to take econ instead because you still don't have your econ online. And so the big question I want to ask you is if you're like if you want to take an augment that doesn't fit your checklist, how did this augment make you stronger, right? I I see a lot of people click augments when I when I VOD review emerald diamond masters, even GM players, they click an augment and they just keep it on the bench. They're clicking like they're like, "Okay, yeah, maybe I need an item." And they click an item augment. Then the item augment just sits on their bench. It's like, "How did you actually get stronger?" And if you're not getting stronger, then when will you get stronger? And you need to be able to identify this. If you take like components that you're not going to slam, then why not just take something and you're going to lose streak anyways, why not take an econ augment and then focus on taking an item augment later as well? That's like that's like one example. For augment theory, the default way that you want to play the game is to have a mixture of every augment type. So very commonly, you're going to see a recommendation of one econ, one item, and one combat because on average, that's what you kind of need to complete a composition. And most composition that are written on guides give you a little bit of all that, right? Like, okay, maybe you just get one econ at the beginning and you get items to finish your your your build and then you take a combat to amplify it all. That's not always true, but that's an easy way to start thinking about how to categorize if whether or not your augments make sense to each other. Um, and generally speaking, you take economs early to have and then combat later after you finish that checklist we talked about. Uh, the first augments a little bit more. We're going to dive deeper into what each augment you're going to be thinking about and we're going to do use some examples is that uh the first augment you should be thinking about like the direction and what am I playing this game. If you're a strong a lot of times you often consider taking an item or a combat augments so now you can win streak. Strong implies you have upgrades or you're playing around OP units or OP traits early. This is where items and combat augments can help you win streak so that way they can convert into gold. Right? Going back to the econ video, we talked about win streaking is your econ engine in that situation. So, you don't need the econ augment. But if you're weak, you want to consider taking econ augments or scaling augments cuz you're you just know that stage two, you're not going to be one of the people fighting for the win streaks. You're not going to be the one pushing levels. You can take econ to eventually spike at a later time or take scaling augments as well. Um, I do want to also add one caveat to the first augment is that if the encounter, which is the start of game effect, gives you one of these things, you will generally need less of it. So, if you're starting on an encounter that gives you a lot of econ, let's say scuttle puddle, you kill the kugs or it's a it's a gold subscription gives you a gold at the beginning of the game, then the value of an econ augment that gives you one gold per turn is a lot less because you already started off your econ that way. instead you can actually pick something else because you already have your econ engine in that regard. So now you can like justify taking a little bit more combat or more items instead. And that also work I actually use a different example and kind of gives items item augments are less important because um you already have items to start off with. All right, so let's take an example, right? So much theory. Can we actually like look at some TFT and talk about what's going on? Um here's an example from a game I played pretty recently that ended up being pretty decent. Uh, and it's it says 16 specific, so I'm just going to try to speak broadly here. Um, my board state right now, all all one star units. The way you can always tell is these uh sidebars. These are bronze. If it's a silver unit, it'll have like a silver bar. If it's if it's a three star unit, it'll be a gold bar. So, you can always tell that this is one star units. I have no upgrades. I'm playing around quote good units. I have Nico and Vi who in this set are very good units to start off with. But I don't even have any other active traits besides defender, which is a defensive trait. So, I have no direction. Uh, I have there's it's not an econ encounter. There's no there's nothing going on. And I'm unlikely to win streak. What kind of early game am I to play with a two cost unupgraded, a one cost, a one cost, a two cost, a two cost, and a two cost. All these units are I'm going to lose every fight on the stage if I field this board. Uh, my augment suggestion were stars are born, blood offering, and preparation. So I have uh preparation which is scaling combat uh blood offering which is an item augment and stars are born which is econ and also it upgrades the first one and two cost champions that I buy. And this is a pretty easy example. I think most people will probably instantly pick. Okay. Also it's kind of cheating. The TFT Academy overlay is actually giving you the tiers of this augments. Okay. Okay, that's probably cheating a little bit, but uh it's got to be stars are born right in this spot because the stars are born immediately gives me board power. It also gives me seven gold so I can make my first intra special, getting my econ engine online and making me likelier to to be able to make more gold. It also has a flammable item for a key unit. Right now people are playing sterox gauge on uh front line for Darius. So I can make like a sterox gauge. Put it on Vi, but in this case I could I can get scion and I can try to play towards a composition. And so this immediately gives me everything that I need to find direction and combat power with something that I can make immediately for stage two. That's a slam dunk home run direction early game already solved. Now I can worry about my next augment on 32 B to address whatever I need because I don't have the backline items anything close to it, but I can use the 3-2 augment to shore up those items. Let's go into a second augment example. What is your position in the lobby? This is the question you should be asking yourself for the second augment. Um the stage damage is ramping and players are beginning to spike. That's the kind of framework we're working with on on the second augment. Um you should take econ if you don't have econ already, right? Let's say you miss econ your first augment. Um or you need help keeping up with the lobby. That's often taken on 32. Uh you take an item augment if you are unlikely to finish your items and you don't have a lot of them for your carry or your tank at the moment. Um and the caveat is if you're wind streaking your last pick on carousel. So keep in mind that if you don't pick item augment when you need it, you also are unlikely to get the last the correct pick on carousel because you're high HP. Uh and then combat is often taken on 32. If you're confident that you can get to your comp with your current resource trajectory, like you think you can hit your board or you already have your board, you're like, "Okay, I'm only one or two components off for finishing my full set." Combat is like pretty good uh in that situation. Uh here's an example we can take from this current set with Ouija Iverson. Um the augment that he picked on 21 is Secrets of the Sand. This augment is a delayed payoff augment. It's something that will give him a very powerful five cost unit called Azir. And Azir has so many different powerful things he can do later on the game um that can scale. And so uh he's taking something that's going to inherently cause him to lose streak because all his augment says is gain 10 gold and then later in the game unlock a really powerful unit that can give you more items. So if you can scale there. So right now Wayan's not even in a good spot cuz his loot streak actually ended. You see he's on a win-win. Um so in this spot he has no item slammed. his lose streak got snapped. So his his econ engine is like not fully um optimized at the moment. He has low board value, right? He's playing all no upgrades versus his opponent has a two star upgrade. And then he doesn't really have that much potential board like to upgrade as well. Like if he rolled, he has no pairs of his units. He has a Kenan here. He has a Shen here. They're not paired. So strong direction, but very weak setup. Let's look at his augment choices. and ask what would he pick. Um, so in this spot, hold the line is actually one of the most powerful combat augments you can ask for with specifically Azir because Azir gives you more allies. He's a unit that summons two sand soldiers. He gives you two units that you can add for hold the line. So once he hits Azir, he has ragelade, he has like AP items, he can spike in power. The other is luxury subscription. Azir pairs really well with five cost. It also gives you gold. It also gives you a two star one cost. You can spike here. Okay, spoiler alert. He actually rolls this augment. But I thought this is an interesting choice situation. Um and then he would also get a guaranteed five cost. So it adds layered delayed payoff. And the last augment he has is one buff, two buff, uh where he can go for a uh two items and a champion duplicator. So in this situation, giving a second for you to potentially pause and think about what you would actually choose here. Way Iverson chooses one buff, two buff because it gives him the ability to three item is carry to start winning and also because the champion duplicator is worth econ to help him hit his board state since he's trying to play for a delayed payoff. When you're playing a delayed payoff, you're trying to immediately spike versus hold the line is not guaranteed to spike him until one stage later when he has level eight and he has everything online. So one buff, two buff is good now and it's good later. Luxury subscription is kind of too gambly. I mean, you can hit a five cost that is good, but it you you also might not get stronger. And hold the line is not necessarily guaranteed to spike him significantly given that his board state is like this. Five components, finish all his items, get everything going. He even So, I think what he ends up doing is slamming blue buff, red buff with the one buff, two buff, gets a death cap, and he slams void staff, and then he can play around the vest for a front line item. And now he's in a really good spot. Let's go into augment number three. Sorry, I don't have all the animations sorted. Uh but third augment is basically used as we alluded before which is I need XYZ to finish my build. Stage damage is the highest at this point and so the late game has started. We need to get online. Uh two notes about the third augment. Econ is the weakest type of econ at the third augment because you have late impact. It's usually just like a bunch of gold or a bunch of exp. It's kind of rare for third econ augment to anything be scaling because you just don't have time. Um, and a lot of times you're only picking items if you don't have your ideal carry or tank items. This is why portable forge is often sketchy on 42 because you oftentimes already have your carry items and your tank items. And so now you're just like gambling on finding something slightly better. You're only supposed to take items if you don't have those items in the first place. Uh, and we go back to the checklist, right? Which is kind of going back to our first initial thing. Do you have your econ? Do you have your items? Do you have your utility? If yes, then take the combat augment a lot. So a lot of times in third augment, you're looking for that combat to finish it off. All right. Uh scenario number three for an example of this set. Let's hop on board with K3 Soju in his comfort zone, averaging a 5.7 for his stream. The encounter is Prismatic Prelude, so we know that nothing's going to happen special guaranteed for augment number three. Uh he has one full carry item set. Um he has utility items plural. He has a broken loss streak. You can see that he's picking comeback story, right? It's a scaling augment, which is something that you lose early. And he tried to turn around his loose streak, but was unsuccessful at doing that on stage three. This is stage four right now. He has one econ augment, which is fire sail to get more econ, but he has no upgrades. He has no upgrades right now. If you look at it, it's a classic K3 situation, K3 soldier situation. All one star board. What is he going to do? So, we get offered these three augments and soju pauses here. Uh, he's offered jeweled lotus, which is a combat augment. We talked about how late game you want combat augments, right? Um, he he's offered growth mindset, which is gain 50 exp. And he's offered sweet treats. Sweet treats is actually a hybrid augment. It's both items and combat power. The more items you have, more combat power you get, right? your team gets 20 health for each equipped item on a champion. Uh and and to add a little bit more comp complexity to it, he doesn't have his full tank items done, uh artifacts are very good for this specific Warwick composition and and playing around the Z. Um just very set specific things and so you could justify taking sweet trees here. Um however, Soju has properly identified that the number one thing that he needs in this situation is hitting his board. He's playing an all onear board. He's level seven, 66 gold. If he levels right now at 42, he will have that's 54 gold min 66 - 54. He had 12 gold. That is basically impossible to hit his board. So, Soju chooses, sorry, Soju chooses growth mindset here, gains 50, basically hits level eight immediately rolls down. And he didn't hit, by the way. I I I wish I took the screenshot of what happened, but um he doesn't hit. He hits two rounds later, stabilizes and wins out from the rest of the game because he was able to identify in this situation, I need Econ to actually get to my endgame board state. I'm so far away from it only with Warick one, Jinx one, Sing one, everything else is at one star. Uh, but Soja ends up going first this game. Uh, really well done. The winning player in TFT will always find a way to synergize their augments together. Trying to find a way that augments can compound onto other augments. Very similar to items, right? If you have uh if you have a really good crit item, don't you want things that give more crit? If you have an augment that does a specific thing, don't you want more things that make that augment better? So ask yourself, does this happen augment have synergy with my carry and my tank, my traits, my items, my existing augments and win condition, or is it good with the lobby dynamic? If everyone's playing physical damage, then armor is very good. The more reasons you can think of, the better that augment pick is because augment synergy is very, very important with what you're doing. Make sure it always feeds back into your core win condition. The other thing is augment power is always relative to each other. One big edge that you can gain in augment selection is understanding the differences and gaps between similar choices. So, for example, the average silver augment we said gives somewhere between I actually wrote different numbers, but let's say in the immediate selection, the average silver augment gives 8 to 10 gold on stage 2 one. The one that gives 10 to 12 is considered strong or even S tier because it just gives you more gold. And it could be in gold value in units or gold directly or exp. So, how do I know if one, two, threes versus placebo is better? Well, we can just like count the gold. This is a three cost, two two cost, and a one cost champion, which is f eight gold. But not only is one, two, threes in the ch in the value of the gold itself. It also gives you the option of selling those units or playing them to win to help you make one extra gold, right? If you win that gold, you win on 2-1 or it might even give you two stars. So one, two, three is like almost strictly better than placebo except unless you consider the 1% attack speed. Uh the other is ascension versus glass cannon, right? you have a baseline of like what damage amp is. Glass cannon says at the back at the start of the combat, champions in the back row get 30% damage amp, but ascension says after 12 seconds of combat gain 45 damage amp. If you look at your composition and you think, oh, if I'm in a situation where my front line is very good, then ascension is pretty much just better than glass cannon with the exception of if your damage is frontloaded within the first 12 seconds of combat. But a lot if you're playing like a very slow ramping ragelade composition then ascension I mean makes a lot of sense there and so you're just literally comparing the numbers. Good augments energy also tends to dip in different buckets. This is similar to the concept of items. Items want flat stats right like base damage with crit with damage amp um with attack speed or mana gain. Same thing with augments. Augment synergy tends to be really good if they dip into different buckets so that you can get boosted board strength. Um, so for example, if you have an augment that gives you free rerolls every time you make an item, then the augment that gives you components becomes even stronger. That's powerful synergy. Uh, I just took two augments. I know they can't be played together unless you're on a specific encounter, but I wanted to do it for demonstration purposes. Crafted crafting says, "Whenever you craft a complete anvil, get two free rerolls. If you have gain six random components, that's really good synergy and it dips into multiple buckets of econ items in combat. That's the most powerful kind of augment synergy that you can make. Um, another type of augment synergy is also rewarding something that you want to do anyways. It's like rewarding you for something that you were going to do. So, if you were going to roll and you pick another augment that helps you roll, then then that's also another example. Uh, and then these slides are just like a ton of examples. So, I'm just going to blow past them or blow through them. Uh, a solo front line super tank is like if you're trying to play a unit that you really want like a three star three cost tank that needs to stay alive then and that that wants to solo front line anyways, solo plate already rewards you for doing that. The golden dragon is something that also is really good. It gives you a mogul mail that takes up two team slots and give up a bunch of HP and durability already rewarding you for doing that. Really good augous energy with your composition. scaling hyper carries. The more you're able to concentrate power onto one unit. A scaling hyper carry in this set, for example, is uh like a TX, but except Tex has kind of gone through highs and lows, but every set's going to have a scaling hyper carry. The more you can concentrate power on that carry, the better. So, an individual artifact or raid item, that's really good to magnify its power. Or something that specifically gives one power to one champion. In this case, this is an Axiom. One specific hex gives them a lot more power. that's really good synergy for your uh for your carry. There's also example really good comp synergies. Um if you're playing like an AP cacher tree, anything that helps like the team effort like sorcerers, archinist, mages, anything that plays like a multitude of units that just deals damage when they cast. Uh anytime you can give them crit or damage amp, very very powerful. High health comps like bruisers, they gain so much HP. What else do they want? They want things like resistances and durability. Makeshift armor is really good with bruisers, for example. Uh, or rewarding you for something that you're doing anyways. If you're playing bruisers, champions restore 5% of their max HP every four seconds. High health comps have a ton of HP, so it rewards you for some doing something that makes sense. Uh, here are some other item synergies, things that scale off each other. So, berry treasures gain a bunch of components. Sweet treats, as we mentioned before, the more items you have, you get more HP. That's another example. Even more things that reward you for doing the same thing. lucky gloves plus radiant thieves gloves plus extra glove components. Uh yes, if you have there's also other synergies that lean into variants. That's not even a bad thing. Some people are like, "Oh my god, I'm a gamba player." Like, you know, that's cool and all, but I want to pick the exciting optin. You can actually amplify your odds for high rolling by having things synergize. So, let's say you take Pandora's items and you take the trait tree. That's actually synergy. That's not a bad pick inherently. You can actually roll for the correct emblems. So, even if you're trying to like play high variance because you just want to have fun, think about your Amus energy. Don't just like, you know, don't think about like the intentionality of it. And that's how good players high roll. Uh econ that scales off of other econ. An example could be prismatic ticket. This is an iconic reroll augment. Each time your shop is rolled, you get a 50% chance for a free rroll. If you take something that gives you 20 rerolls that actually says gain on average 30 rrolls, right? Except each of those free rerolls has a chance of also getting a free reroll. So, it's actually more than 30 rerolls. Epic roll down crazy amplifies with uh with prismatic ticket. Okay, so uh that's pretty much it. Some final bonus concepts. These are just like other things and random things that I jotted down as I was going through this. Hero augments are in a special bucket. They tend to synergize with item augments because you're concentrating your power onto one use specifically. Uh hero augments are a combat augment, right? So, think about how you can amplify that with the hyper hyper carry uh scaling that we talked about. um very very strong historically with artifacts and radiant items. Uh some thoughts about payoff delayed payoff augments. They tend to be good in two scenarios. One is when you're so strong you are likely to win anyways negating the power troth. So if you are high rolling and you get your augment way later, that's actually a good scenario because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if you're down an augment. Uh the other is when you're laking and expecting to spike later in the game. It makes a lot of sense, right? Intuitively. Um, some bonus thoughts about econ augments. Fast 9 tends to want at least two econ augments a hit because the win condition is overwhelming board value. So, if you're playing fast 9 or anything that's around level 9 and five cost, try to look for two econ augments. If you're contested, the value of econ augments go up significantly. In many instances, double econ is often a good idea. Um, this is mainly for four cost lines, but could be true about r-roll as well. Uh sometimes if you're playing for placements, econ is the best augment to take so you can hit your board and immediately win rounds. Uh this is like a situation where you're trying to uh play for like a fifth or a six because you know that your spot is really bad. Take an econ augment to try and hit your board immediately and win now and then understand that you're going to lose later because your board is not that good and you can play for placements. And then I think lastly, I think it's the last one. Uh timing of augments can change everything. Uh, one example that I give is that radiant thieves gloves used to be available on 2-1 and it was one of the most broken augments in the game is because radiant thieves gloves gave two radi at the beginning of the game. Even doesn't matter if it's random. The value on that on a two star one cost was insane. Uh, so radiant thieves gloves was like by far it was averaging like a 3.8 every single set and you always would click it no matter what. You saw on 21. Now, it's banned at 21 cuz it's too strong. But if you pick it up later in the game, as you guys have probably experienced yourself, it's okay. It's not going to be game-breaking at all. It's just fine because it's relative to when you get the augments. Uh, and then my final tips for this presentation is very long presentation. Uh, when you're in a tough spot, try to count the number of reasons you can think of. The more reasons, the likelier is a stronger augment choice. Sometimes you can just say ABC D for one, AB for two. Okay, I'm going one. that'll help you help you process things. Uh time is also a significant resource. Don't agonize too long over augment choices only to miss the rest of your turn. Uh augments are not worth losing an extra life in a lot of situations, especially late game. Um and just immediately re augments that you know are going to be useless. All right, and that's it. That's it. That was a pretty long presentation, but uh I really feel like it was important to cover as much as I can in depth over all the core aspects of augment fundamentals. If for some reason this is a video you stumbled upon and you want to watch the other fundamentals about econ and items and in the future, the next time uh I have it right here. The next time is going to be meta read. Uh, I'll be teaching you guys how to put it all together to make a good meta read and line selection so that way you can climb on any patch in any meta in any set. Thanks for watching my stuff. I'll catch you guys next time. Peace out.