All right, this is my final video on the four core skills to climb in TFT. And the core pillar today is metad/line selection. This is probably the most important skill to put everything that we talked about together. So, if you're talking about econ, augments, and items, those are like the three things we talked about so far, which are the core resources you play around, but you need to figure out how to put together and make strong decisions around them. And we've talked pretty extensively about all of those things. So, we're going to be alluding to it. If you missed any part of those in previous talks, I highly encourage you go back to other videos. Uh, but this is going to be like a 20 25 minute discussion covering some intermediate concepts to help you climb on any patch. Uh, just to kind of go over it one more time, this guide is not to teach you the basics of TFT. You should know how to do all these basic concepts, make items, augments, how to use your shops. If you're looking for a tutorial on how to climb in TFT, but you still have yet to learn the basics, I recommend other series that either we do or some other people have put out some good stuff on there. Um, but so today's going to be about meta read specifically and your line selection within it and how to build your meta read, how to properly select the right lines and specifically how to understand and interpret other people's meta read so that way you feel like you understand when people are talking about how strong XYZ thing is. Our first topic is going to be line selection itself. We're going to talk a little bit at length about it. We're talk about the truth about tier lists. Uh, and the third thing is going to be how to build your patch game plan. So, the first thing we want to talk about is why line selection is important. Uh, and the first thing that I want to drive home is that line selection is your number one highest impact decision-making skill that you could have in TFT. A lot of people might think it's about choosing the right items. It's about choosing the right, you know, units to roll down for or the augment selection. None of that matters if your line selection is very poor. And what line selection is, we're going to talk a little bit more about it, but uh line selection puts you on the path of success. Most TFT games are already won or lost by your opening line selection. TFT is a lot more about the game than just what composition you're play. Everyone always going to talk about like what comps are going to play, what's my comp, what's my comp, what comp are we going towards. It's not just about comps. You want to talk about lines. Comps are the final picture of what you're actually putting together, right? And it's what it's on TFT Academy, the tier list website. It's on what a lot of people recommend when they're like, "What am I building towards?" But the line is the path that gets you there, right? It's the plan. It's it's L plan. You need to figure out how you actually deviate to in order to get to your destination. And understanding the path that you're on will help you naturally get to the composition you're going to land upon. A lot of times when you're playing TFT, you people are tunneling too much on the units instead of understanding the options that they have with that line. Uh you pick a plan that your current resource can build towards. So don't pick a comp, pick a plan. The winning player keeps their AP high by taking strong lines ideally with multiple outs. Uh so we'll talk a little bit more about line selection, but if you still don't really understand like what lines even are. Uh I I use this analogy that I like to describe which is the composition is kind of like your final destination on your routing GPS app, whatever you use like Google Maps, Apple Maps. Uh and the line that you're on gives you many different deviating paths that you can have, right? Like you know if you pull up your like 40 minutes, this is the fastest way, but it avoids highways. This one is like another way you can do it that avoids the toll so you can like, you know, be a little bit more economically minded if you want to scout like what people's lines are. It's kind of like your traffic report. If you're pivoting, it's like a GPS reroute, right? So there are all different things to help you put the analogy together if you're missing it. But one thing I want to drive home is that if you try to like play a comp, you're like, "Oh, I'm going to go in and force a composition." That's kind of like just ignoring being one of those people that ignore the GPS entirely and just say, "I know the path to get there." And you're just going to get stuck on the highway in traffic because you just ignored what the game or what the traffic report was telling you. So hopefully that helps drive home the point of why you want to be on the correct line and hopefully you can understand that analogy a little bit better. George actually did a really good one. George is a very famously Aspire streamer, a pretty good friend of mine. He actually talks about like trains as well, like you're trying to take train stops where you're getting off on all different possible different train stops to your destination to link to other trains. Uh that's another analogy that I really like. Okay, let's talk a little bit about the line selection formula. The last selection formula is a four input equation and it's a combination of everything we've talked about which is your opening units and traits. Talk about your opening items, talking about your augments, and the last important thing to put together is what the lobby dynamic looks like, right? So like what's your encounter that you're playing on if you're playing on scuttlepuddle? Scuttle puddle is like a high resource. You kill the crabs, you get more golden items. that changes the dynamic of what compositions, what lines will be good, if you're contested, if people are leaning more towards r-oll, right? That kind of that kind of stuff is a really important uh aspect of the equation. The thing about line selection is that you don't actually need all four of these things to line up, but each favorable condition that you can put together increases your AVP. So when when when they're doing a chat I'm doing a chat challenge right on Twitch right now where chat picks my augments and a lot of times when they're picking my augments they're voting for they're voting with a bunch of different reasons. Some people want the fun augments. Uh some people want the augments are really weird. A lot of times people are actually trying to help and pick like what they think is correct, but they're not actually putting all of these things together. They're only seeing your opening unit and they say, "Oh, this augment has to be broken with this unit." Right? Let's just pick an easy example. You have a a few copies of a unit. They see a hero augment and they say, "Oh, you have to click this augment because you already have copies of this of this champion." That's a good ruling start. not factoring in things like your items, which can be something that completely screws you if you don't have items for your hero augment. Or if the lobby dynamic is changing where, for example, everyone wants to play that unit anyways, right? It's a very contested, let's say it's a two cost hero augment, you're going to pick a hero augment. Yes, you have a few copies of it, but the entire three people in the lobby also want to hold that unit while they're trying to play their other lines. Not even necessarily trying to grief you. They're just contesting you. And that's how you end up in situations where you're not considering these equations or inputs into the equations. You can actually be blowing up your game on the spot because you're not factoring all those things. So I want to use a case study here and this is uh one of the most cool things that's ever happened in competitive TFT which is Wayan Iverson who signed a team TF Academy. Hopefully still by the time you're watching this video we would love to keep Wayan on Lifetime. You know, we're like a a group of people that want to keep players fulfilling their dream and and pushing for, you know, being a TFT champion. Wage has won three tier one cups in a row this set, which is never before been done. In fact, it's been uncommon for anyone to win two tournaments in a row. I don't even know if that's ever happened. And he won three in a row. And the way he won his third was quite interesting because I think a lot had to do with his line selection. Um, and I want to bring up an example from this set. This is in set 16, Lauren Legends. If you're watching in a future set, uh I'll break it down for you. Um this is a composition called Ionia. And the big thing about Ionia is that the trade changes every single game. Uh the the ones on this patch that he's playing, the perceived strong ones are things that give free resources. Like there's an Ionia path that says if you kill units, get gold. There's other that says if you field it, get free exp. I mean, that's generically good. Who doesn't want free resources? Uh, the last one that's good is called Path of Spirits. It's a combat stats every time you cast your ability. So, those are considered to be the strong ones. The ones that are quote bad uh or the weaker ones are bonus stats for three staring your champion, mainly because you're not trying to roll for three star four costs. Uh, the other is extra attacks um where you attack, you get a chance to attack again. Uh, and the reason why we're highlighting this is uh these are the early units you want. These are one cost. This is Jyn who wants a ragelade and infinity edge. And then you also want to use that Jin to put items later on a Yunara, right? The Ragelade, Infinity Edge ties in here. Uh these are also just tank utility items, some some carries or some items for your five cost and you're going to be playing around a five7 Ionia board. The first is what happened the game before Wayan wins. This is game five. His current points are at 23. He's on check if he wins this game. Wson wins the tournament. The first thing that's presented to him is calculated loss. Uh this is not about Auggma selection. That's a previous thing. He has a twisted fate with a Shen and a Dr. Mundo. And this only gives him two bruisers with things like this Jin pair which we talked about Ty and Tionia as well as these two melee champions Kiana and Brier who they're not relevant for this discussion but they are units that he could play around. Now the interesting thing is that he actually has the opportunity to play into multiple things at this point. He could try to play into the Infinity Edge. All he needs to do is get the bow, right? And he has Ragelade Infinity Edge and he can play around the Jin. He can play around the Shen and he can kind of calculate a loss lak. This is an augment that rewards him for l streaking. And we've actually saw a lot of people in the set find success l streaking with Ionia and roll for the board and actually win out from that spot. So he actually could go for it. But instead, Wayan Iverson chooses to slam and prioritize playing around this buildwater trait, which by putting items on Twist of Fate will unlock because he has an Illaoi in the shop will unlock the buildwater and allow him to play into buildwater, which is also another composition that caps really high. And funny enough, he doesn't get the full loss streak, so that's unfortunate. But he also ends up hitting a Yunara later on in the game. But the reason why I think this is actually good line selection that just didn't happen to work out, this is not necessarily a mistake for him, is because he didn't actually have favorable conditions to play into Ionia because combat on cast is something that doesn't generate the gold resources and specifically he wasn't in a power position to uh necessarily be able to convert into a good Ionia spot because Ionia you could lose streak into Yunara, but you're just coin flipping your game because you have in order to be strong and stabilize on this, you have to hit everything everything. So, this is a this is an example where I think Wayan Iverson chooses buildwater, which is a reasonable choice here in this spot and not necessarily incorrect. But here's an example in the following game where wage Iverson has slam in two star Jin, two star um two star Shen, but he doesn't have Ragelade and he doesn't have Infinity Edge, but this Ionia path is gold generation. So, it's one of those things where it's like, well, I don't really have my three Ionia. It's only two out of three, but I'm in a spot where because my units are upgraded the moment I find the N Ionia and because I'm flexible on my itemization because he can take multiple things off of the carousel. Like if he gets a single rod, if he gets a single sword, I mean, it's totally fine for him to get a belt to make a sunfire. He can slam and get kills and get the gold generation. It's a way for him to leverage his existing lead and opener into a spot where Ionia can actually snowball even though he doesn't have the three Ionia. Right. So in this game, Way Iverson actually slams everything. I think he slams a tank item. Um and he ends up just being in a really really dominant spot. He slams a set pass hard to get actual momentum and then he gets um a sword off carousel, gets the rod, slams the slams the ragelade and the rest is history. Way I actually wins out and he ends up being a beast. So that's like one easy example. Like you know a lot of players who watch that happen and who might be watching this video just be like well you know come on that was like an easy spot. But uh I think that it's important to identify what makes strong lines right because we want to talk about how to begin building lines. Uh, and I want to give you this starting point, which is find a way to identify what are the common resources that multiple lines can use because going back to the buildwater spot, both buildwater and Ionia really need this infinity edge. But the thing is, Ionia really needs that ragelade and he wasn't really there at all. Instead, he has his his tears in these cloaks and he end up building a front line item instead. But because they have common resources, it gives you the ability to actually pivot. Because when you combine everything, econ items and augments, that's when you have the option to pivot. A lot of people are obsessed in TFT about pivoting. I want to pivot. Shouldn't you pivot this? A singlear in the shop, like we saw a couple screenshots ago, shouldn't you pivot? Shouldn't you pivot? But it's it's you only really pivot when you can when you feel like the items and resources are naturally lending yourself into a path that you're already on. And that's where line selection becomes really important. Uh, another example they can use here in lore and legends for set 16 is just like a simple ragelade plan. You have a Cogmaw in every set. Cogm's good go with ragelade. So hopefully this is um timeless. But this ragelade could go on the AD path or the AP path. But what becomes really interesting is that you can actually have them intertwine. Right? Let's say you have ragelade with Kog'M and then you put on Teemo in this set. They're both the same trait. So they end up being very strong and you can have them hold these items, but then you get dropped all the swords, gloves, and bows and you were thinking about playing around like, you know, Zoey and Ari and his AP champions, but because you get dropped that, you can deviate into more of the AD line. Uh, and then behind my camera is Kindred, who's a who's an AD champion. to help you understand what path you can put be put on. And this is where the analogy is of where that line is because on your way to Yunara from like the Jin start, you could be literally playing any of these champions. Any of these champions as long as they're like upgraded, they fit your board. You could play Teemo, Zoey, Ari, and then find a way to get into Yara, right? Because it's it all works in the path. Trust me, if you're if you're watching in a future set, it made sense with the traits. Um, but you can also do it the inverse way where you're playing Tristana, Jinx, and oh my gosh, I just got all these rods and tears. I can play now Ari and Yon and find a way to end on things like Azir. All right, so that's line selection. Let's talk about tier list and talk about the truth about tier lists. The thing about tier lists is that tier lists are just opinions, but they're opinions based on three specific factors. Here's a screenshot of of the best tier list in the game, TFT Academy. Uh, tier list are based on three things. raw power, which tends to have uh a factor of AVP and win rate. AP is average placement. Uh consistency, which is very important. A lot of people misunderstand that because they're saying, "Oh, that's crazy. Rise is one of the strongest carries in the game. If you I lose to rise to all the time, why is he not higher on the tier list?" It's because the baseline consistency is not there. Uh and it's mainly about your success and failure rate. How often are you able to actually get to that board that performs if you have a really high win rate like 20 25% but you have a really high bottom two rate uh that's not very high on the tier list in my opinion. flexibility as well, which is sort of like how we call it conditions, right? Uh how many conditions do you need, but I didn't really want to write the word conditionality. It's more like the more flexible a line is, the more powerful it tends to be because it means that you don't have to have a specific set of items, a specific set of augments, a specific rolling start in order to get to that power level. So adaptability, flexibility, conditions, whatever you want to say. Uh also, how well it can handle being contested is another factor. But it's all it's all an imperfect science, right? It's all just opinions. Uh that's why you you it's good to have a comp mastery. Like the the whole point of tier list is that tier lists are are just opinions, but none of it matters if you actually don't know what your comp does or like how it succeeds. The number one problem that I have with a bunch of tier list and the way people play the game, like I I I backseat my friend on Discord. Um he's one of my Riftbound buddies/coaches and he loves TFT. He's emerald and you know he he's a guy that will look at this and said but TFT Academy said this is Vain that Vain is S tier. So I feel like I should just play Vain even though he had like a perfect spot to play Kai'Sa instead or or or Bellevath right as one of these carries that's in Btier. But he doesn't know how to play that line. All he knows is that comp is broken because it's an S tier. And you can't necessarily just be thinking about the raw power level of things because you have to think about consistency and how good your spot is, right, for that for that specific line. Even a Btier comp with perfect spot will often beat the S tier line with an okay spot. And if you don't know what you're doing, you're probably going to bought four. Okay, but then how do I know what's good in terms of tier list? How do I know what's a good tier list? How do I know uh what is actually good? And here's where I encourage you, right? This is this is actually going to go into the last part which is building your game plan. Um, every tier list or every meta read should be a mixture of data which is stuff like stats, comp stats, augment stats, item stats, whatever is out there. Uh, experts opinions. There's a few good expert opinions out there. There's also some bad ones. Not going to name any names. I test, which is basically your own personal experience. We use this term a lot to basically say whether or not things look good when you're like watching it being played. Sometimes you hit a board that looks good and then you're it just sucks. watching streamers or other content. Again, there's some good ones out there. Uh talking to other friends or other players. And it doesn't necessarily have to be just talking to like people who are high elo, but you can just add people after game and chat them up and just say like, I you know, that was crazy. How did you know how to play that cob? Um that's actually how the story of how a lot of other famous streamers and players got to know each other. A lot of people who especially if you're watching and let's say you're like a masters or grandmasters player even trying to get better. A lot of people always say I don't know how to get into a study group or I don't know how people have all these friends. You just have to reach out. You have to kind of break out of your bubble, right? You have to get out of your comfort zone both in and out of the game. Talking to other players is a really big thing. K3 Soju a really famous Twitch streamer uh and influencer. He one of his best friends um who he he's on who's teammates with now for a few years. His name is Milk. They were both just trading rank one regularly in challenger back in set one and he just eventually added him and then that's how they became friends because he's like, "Okay, well, we keep trading rank one. I want to know what this guy thinks about the game." And that's how they're friends now and the rest is history. Um, tournament results. So, tournament data. If a tier list is only data, it's a useless tier list. If it's a tier list of only eye tests, it's a useless tier list. Any tier list that doesn't actually factor in multiple perspectives and opinions, in my opinion, is lacking. All right, so let's talk about building the game plan. If you've been on social media, you probably have seen just people typing like a lot. It's just so much typing and a lot of a lot of question marks and a lot of cap slots, right? You have you just see all these guys, all these streamers just typing and typing and typing and typing and just essaying and chatting. But how do we actually build that game plan? And there's a lot of different methodologies to it. We're gonna go into it, but the whole most important thing first is that you have to have a game plan. The number one thing when I'm coaching TFT players all the time whenever people want to hire me as a personal coach is I always ask, well, what's your game plan going into the game? And a lot of times they're just naming units. They're like, well, I'll play I we use the example of Yara. I'll just play Yunara and if I won't play Yunara, I'll play Kai'Sa. And that's it. That's their game plan. like, oh yeah, well, and and you know, maybe this composition is OP, but I think about that. But we need to actually think about how to develop this game plan. Uh, the first thing you need to write down is a list of comps that you think is worth playing. That's not every composition. This is not every composition. Just write down the comps that you think are worth playing. And to a certain extent, that is what the TF Academy tier list is, right? This like TF Academy tier list are all the comps that might be worth playing. There's a few of them on there, especially towards a Ctier, that's probably not worth probably say Ctier in general is like generally avoid, but anything Btier and above in our opinion is worth thinking about. Sometimes Ctier also is worth thinking about it as well. Write out their ideal openers. Write out the necessary condition, things like augments and items. And maybe this is actually a bonus, write out things that you think are bait or you should avoid or are banned from playing. And this is really powerful because if you don't write that, you are going to eventually get baited into spots or like you're you're not you're actually going to be likely to deviate from that and get yourself into bad spots because the key to climbing is not just how you get your top fours, but also how you avoid your bottom fours. The second thing you should do is rank your ideal openers. Uh this is going to be something we showcase a little bit, but you need to rank what units are better to others to hold. Uh we'll talk about that in a little bit, but it's mainly about one, two, and three costs. Uh and the last thing is collect any free win conditions for the patch. You know, the things like, oh, this augment is overbuffed. This artifact is really powerful. This emblem on this unit is specifically really broken in this set. For example, there was a patch where Aurelian soul was really broken. If you got an Invoker emblem on Aurelian Soul, it was super busted. So, free win conditions for the patch. You need to write that out as well so that way you don't miss a beat. So I want to write some examples. Uh this one's done by Loer. Loer is one of the founders of a group of players called the Boom Kitchen Brownies or the Cooking Brownies uh study group. They're a group of players that have sent I I would say this set they sent the most players to the world championship from their study group. Uh as partially because they study with EU uh for and Americas. So, they have a lot of players, but uh they there there's a reason to their success. They're not just like a group of players that are just grinding games or, you know, uh just aimlessly looking at stats. They actually meet together and put together documents. And I got permission to show one of the documents that they actually put together for early in the set. So, what they do is they write out all their compositions like this. So, they write down everything they think is worth playing, even stuff in tier four, but you know, they're like not sure about it. They they assign some arbitrary tier numbers. They debate about this for a long time, but it's not that big of a deal. They write down some other things that I think are also worth thinking about. Is this a composition that can play for a win, like a first place? If not, you have to adjust how you approach that game because it's different if a composition can hit the board and win everything versus it might win lose win lose. You have to adjust your AVP expectations. What are some of the conditions that you would think about playing it? And th and this is really helpful because if you don't put this down on paper, you you end up getting lost and dizzy a lot and it helps be a good source of reference for you to constantly go back to. They have a category called enablers. Enablers are like, you know, other factors that might be things that make it even better, right? So, if you're playing, we we went back to the Ionia where you get free exp and gold. If you get like, you know, a lot of bows and tank items, that's really good for that composition. Um, don't be fiveway contested. Uh, I like that one. They also went a little bit above and beyond. They add compositions that are specifically good from lose streak and compositions that they think are specifically good from win streak. And the whole point isn't to just memorize the sheet. The whole point is you need to put together a plan because so many of players that I talk to, so many players that come to my chat and ask about questions, they just don't have a plan. Shout out to Loer for showing this document. You can check out his stream whenever he does stream. It's Loser Dinger. Uh, the second thing I want to show you guys is the openers tier list, right? This is something that we do a lot for TFT Academy Patreon. So, um, we put together sheets of this all the time in our videos, uh, like our meta read here where we go through like what we think is like the opener tier list. We also do like a lot of video breaking down everything. We do this every single patch. This one's from Upset Max. Uh, and he says, "Here are the best things that you can hold on stage one, but that is largely built upon the meta read. this thing is this tier list itself is useless unless you understand what they're building towards right so from from this patch uh he says these are the units that you want to play around these are some of the three costs the two cost and the one cost uh and these are the SA B and D and if you're not doing this you have to sell quickly and you have to figure out what pairs to hold or you're just caught in between like do I commit to A versus B you're not organizing your thoughts you're going to get dizzy you're going to lose time you're going to lose edge And then the last element of building your game plan, we talked about the opener tier list, is also your item slams. So have a game plan for your units. Have a game plan for your lines and your compositions. Have a game plan for your items. Uh we we have a we have our item tier list on TF Academy. I think a lot of people actually don't even know this. I always get told regularly that they didn't even know that there's other tier list besides comps, but if you literally see this comps, items, and augments, we actually have an item tier list that's specifically for like your early game slams. How good are these items in the early game? And uh this is like an example from one that's current patch. You should make one for yourself as well. Like what are the good items to play around? Again, organize your thoughts so you spend less time deliberating and more time actually playing the game and be able to execute every what you need. And the last thing is augments as well. If you want to go above and beyond, you don't actually have to do this. I think ranking every augment is overkill, but ranking some of the most important augments so that way you don't miss and skip them is really key. And there's also a bunch of other people that put it out for free. Wage Iverson, for example, ranked his for free on YouTube. He's giving you all the tech. What a guy. But it's definitely worth, in my opinion, spending time to just write down what are the top tier. All right, so that's it. So, let's talk a little about some bonus concepts um some questions and and FAQs. One of the most frequently asked questions I would assume I I would assume is how do I know if I selected the wrong line? like what if I how do I know I got on the wrong line versus did I just make a mistake or was it just bad luck? How do I actually know if I selected the wrong line? Um I would say that the first thing you should ask yourself is did you even have another option, right? What what were your other options? And if you did have other options, try to imagine what the game would look like if you had chosen to do something else and how that would have impacted your AB. Sometimes the answer is even if you had another option, it's not very good. But a really easy example is if you're contested and you lost, you did you have other options? That's usually the first thing I default to. Um second is did you scout correctly? Did you actually correctly interpret the way the lobby was looking to you? And a lot of times the answer is no. Like a lot of times when I'm on the wrong line is because I thought this player was going to play this reroll comp and as a result I thought I couldn't. But if I actually looked deeper and understood what they were like on a on a if I actually just like analyzed it and thought about it instead of just like rushing and assuming, I probably would have seen that they weren't going to go for that and I could have actually played that reroll line instead. Uh, and then ask yourself where did the game feel like it went wrong and go back to it. Most often times it's when you thought you should be strong and you didn't win. You're like, "Okay, I hit my board and then all of a sudden I thought I was going to win fights and I lost every fight." You're re you're rerolling a comp. You three star stuff, but for some reason you lose every fight. That's probably something that you can go back and evaluate. Uh, and that also applies to other situations where you thought that you would hit. You thought you had enough gold to hit. You can go back and evaluate those spots as well. Uh, use replay functions. These are really important. Uh, I think one of the time, one of the number one things that people don't do is go back and actually watch their own gameplay. Uh, they just like go back in their head and just be like, "Oh yeah, I I just shouldn't have rolled there." And then they just like click the next button. Uh, the other concept I want to push out there is one other extreme, which is there will be times when a composition or a line is so strong, you should just play it anyways. It doesn't matter if you don't have I think I have it where it's like uh you know four the line formula is like four inputs but sometimes in TFT the game is not conducive to putting all four of those things together and you should just play it and that that is part of the skill of your meta read. We talked about those tier zeros right on that document list. I think we had it uh previously this list we someone had tier zero which is like if you have double trouble doesn't matter just take it that double trouble is so good it's broken they believe that I'm not sure it's entirely true always but every now and then it is true so here's some examples of the past so you can understand this is a fun trip down memory lane back in set 10 there's a trait called heart steel if you got a chosen hard steel or like a hard steel headliner you could just play hard steel almost no matter what no matter what your items were you got a single bow a single glove a single sword you can find your way into Hearthsteel and Hearthste was so flexible and powerful that you could actually play it in a four-way fivewe test and chances are you would succeed. Uh, another notorious example was back in set 12, Synra was a twocost. That was scale every single time that she would cast. And so the best thing to do was if you had a Syndra and a single bow, there were legitimately seven players in the lobby all playing Syndra. And it was probably correct because Synra was very broken. Uh, set 14. There was a specific trait item in the game called exotech and it would give you a free item. Uh if there was a item called hollow bow with uh with zer, it was so powerful if you paired it with ragelade that uh there was legitimately five six-way contests and all of them would go one two three four five six. It was very very powerful and it was okay because it gave you the item for free. So if you just put the exotech in, you got the end for free. And then from this set, probably the most notorious example would be lore and legends playing the TX pilt over comp. And if you had early Caitlyn's almost no matter what, you would try to force your way into the TX line because that composition was basically the only comp that had windshare. Everything else was playing for like third and below. This was during the holiday patch. So, the T-Hack stuff, uh, some of the some of the most notorious moments. So, as painful as it may feel, this is part of the skill in building Metar. Sometimes you must simply put the fries in the bag or, you know, you can always just take the patch off if it's just not cup of tea, but it is part of the skill in building a better read. Uh, additional considerations. We'll just blow past this because these are just bonus random concepts I couldn't fit in the actual talk. Uh, opening encounters can change everything. If you get extra items, specific item augments, or item heavy comps are better, right? We talked about this in the augment talk video. If you get lots of econ, more expensive comps are better. If you get gold subscription, you get 10 gold every stage. Turns out you can get the level nine and play around five cost. What are the most contested components in the lobby? This is something also think about based on your opener. How likely can you get this key item? Sure, you have good units and augments and everything like that. But can you actually get this key item based on your opener? If every if three other people in your lobby also need a tier, how likely are you going to get that tier? Uh and can you even build a game plan inversing the lobby? If you see everybody wants a tier and you know no one's going to be taking a sword or a glove, is there a game plan you can build going against the grain? That's a strategy that you know people like more dog always advocate for. Uh and then the last thing is reroll lines improve the more players are at your same tier. So this is important to note if you're ever like thinking about a lobby and you see this guy wants to reroll, this guy wants to reroll, this guy wants to roll, are they rerolling one cost, two cost, or three costs? might change the dynamic of things because every unit that's pulled out of the pool of that tier makes it easier for you to hit what you're rolling for as well. So, in this current set, for example, a lot of people are re-rolling three costs at the moment. And if you see a lot of people rolling three costs, that might encourage you if you're 50/50 between two comps. Should I play this three cost rule line? Should I be pushing level to eight and rolling for four cost? Maybe you should be thinking more about three costs because so many people in the lobby are also rolling for three cost. that's more likely for you to hit your board. All right, so here's a summary putting it all together. Line selection is not a single decision. Every game you have five core scans. What one, what is the patch encouraging, which should be done before the game. Don't be thinking about that as you're loading up in the encounter. Two, what are my items telling me? Three, what is my board telling me? Are you winning? Are you losing? Are you in the middle? Four, what is my augment telling me at the beginning of the game? and five, what is the lobby telling me? That is what line selection ultimately is. Putting it all together in these five core scans. And the final final tip that I want to give perhaps most important advice is don't fall into a single person's read. That's why TFT Academyy's T is done by two people, not one. Don't just trust one person. Right? There's a lot of people who say, "But Dish soap said X. Dish soap's not infallible, although he's pretty damn close sometimes." Wayanian Iverson said whyian's really good but he's not infallible. Don't fall into a single person's read no matter how good or how much they verify it. Right. It's always import it's it's important to trust but verify. The player instead that you should trust mo most is yourself because you understand your spot better than the person you're on Discord with. Better than the person sitting next to you. Better than the person telling you advice in chat. You should trust yourself more than the person that's just giving you advice because it's your read based on what you think is good. This is what help you grow the most. You need to develop a little bit of ego when it comes to your meta read. This it's a big part of improving at TFT. It's something that I didn't really understand when I was first learning because I was like so studious like, "Oh, I'll listen to all these other people." But the problem is if you just collect bits and pieces from everyone's advice, you don't actually have a recipe of a delicious meal. You have some evil abomination. It's kind of like putting a little bit of soda from everything across the row and it just has no identity and it just tastes awful. You need to put something that you understand and trust yourself. Uh the last thing, the last last thing I promise there's nothing after this. Uh is just ask questions and engage more. Just talking to people, you know, seek improvement. My chat here, I think mostly gives good advice. I mean, when they're when they're being serious. A lot of times we're not in serious mode, but we engage in chat, ask questions, uh, and seek improvement. And if you run into people who are not like that, and you really want to improve, then the the trash takes itself out. Find other people that want to do the same. And that's it. Uh, that covers all four of the core pillars, I promise you, if you watch all of these videos, uh, it's a lot of theory. I understand that we didn't really talk about like what comp is good uh or like you know all these different like different concepts of what items to slam, but if you put it all together, I promise you that these are lessons that you'll come back to that'll help you grow as a TFT player so that you can climb on any patch. It doesn't have to it doesn't matter if it's like your set, it's a reroll set, it's a fast nine set, it's a four cost patch, it's an AP patch. You apply a lot of these concepts and you put the work in. I promise you that you'll climb to Mast's Plus. I I firmly believe anyone can get there if they really are intentional about it. So, um, go back and and watch some of that stuff. And I'm not going to always be covering everything in this series, right? I think like someone, for example, like Day does a lot of fundamentals talking about like the the tank formula a lot more in depth. And I think that's good stuff. Uh, but hopefully that this could be an overarching approach that will help any person across any set climb to what they need. Um, check out more of my stuff here. Check out it's it's going to be on the TF Academy channel. So check out TF Academy. Uh and if you guys have any other further questions, always feel free to stop by my chat or uh Discord or even on the comments below. All right, thanks for tuning in. Good luck on the climb and hopefully next time we do this video, we'll cover more interesting topics about fundamentals. I love talking about it. GG's.